

========== PAGE 1 ==========

Transaction Costs and Cost Mitigation in Option
Investment Strategies ∗
James O’Donovan† Gloria Yang Yu‡
April 24, 2024
Abstract
We examine the impact of transaction costs on the profitability of long-short portfolios
of delta-hedged option returns. Out of 24 variables studied, 17 generate positive and
significant gross returns, but none remain profitable after accounting for trading costs.
We explore cost-mitigation strategies and propose a novel approach that outperforms
existing methods, restoring profitability to 7 long-short portfolios. Our findings empha-
size the crucial role of implementation costs in assessing the investment opportunity set
in equity-option markets and underscore the importance of incorporating transaction
costs when evaluating option-based strategies.
Keywords: Asset-pricing, option returns, transaction costs, market frictions
∗Wei Ling provided exceptional research assistance.
†City University of Hong Kong. Email: james.odonovan@cityu.edu.hk
‡Singapore Management University. Email: gloriayu@smu.edu.sg

========== PAGE 2 ==========

1 Introduction
Return measurement is one of the most fundamental elements of asset pricing. Although
our objective is to measure the investment returns that would have been available to an
investor in the past, various forms of bias can affect this measurement. For example, the data
available to researchers may only keep observations for firms with particular features. 1 Even
when the data is bias-free, return measurement is biased if trading costs are not accounted
for. Transaction costs, which are unavoidable for real-world investors, represent a source of
potentially biased measurement. As returns guide the design of theoretical models, empirical
factor models, and real-world investment strategies, measuring returns net of sampling biases
and transaction costs is an issue of first-order importance.
Measuring returns to investors in option markets is particularly challenging. Compared
to equity markets, there are many more degrees of freedom in constructing of option strate-
gies, such as the timing of entry, the frequency of delta hedging, the choice between exiting
before expiration or holding until maturity, and the methods of accounting for transaction
costs. Researchers employ different combinations of methods to measure returns. Further-
more, Duarte, Jones, Mo, and Khorram (2023) emphasize that some widely used sample
construction techniques result in returns that are subject to a look-ahead bias. Due to dif-
ferent approaches used across studies for sample construction, measurement of returns, and
adjustment for transaction costs, we do not have a comprehensive understanding of option
strategy returns.
This paper sets out to answer three main questions. First, what are the returns to com-
mon option investment strategies after adjusting for look-ahead bias and transaction costs?
Second, what are the time series and cross-sectional characteristics of option strategy trans-
action costs? Third, what transaction cost mitigation strategies can be used in the options
market? Answering these questions is important to understand investor opportunity sets and
market frictions. However, relative to the stock market, estimating the effects of transaction
costs and designing cost mitigation strategies for options is more difficult because one must
trade in both the option contract and the underlying stock. Furthermore, the literature on
option portfolio returns has largely followed the equity-anomaly portfolio literature without
designing portfolios and cost mitigation strategies tailored to the characteristics of option
contracts.
We start by calculating the returns to long-short delta-hedged call option portfolios on a
1Fama and French (1992) point out that COMPUSTAT data pre-1962 is subject to a selection bias where
large successful firms are retained, Shumway (1997) highlights a delisting bias in CRSP returns. Mutual
fund data is also subject to survivorship bias (Elton, Gruber, and Blake, 1996) and incubation bias (Evans,
2010). McLean and Pontiff (2016) provide evidence that statistical biases affect the discovery of variables
that predict stock returns.
1

========== PAGE 3 ==========

sample of returns not subject to the look-ahead bias pointed out by Duarte et al. (2023). We
focus on portfolios formed at the end of the month and held for one month as in Zhan, Han,
Cao, and Tong (2022). We form a set of 24 potential predictor variables suggested by the
literature and find that 17 of the 24 variables can be used to form portfolios with significant
long-short portfolio returns. We then study the impact of stock and option transaction costs.
Figure 1 shows the first main result. Under the conservative assumption that options traders
pay approximately one-fifth of the quoted half spread for options and the effective half spread
for stocks, we find that none of the strategy returns survive transaction costs. We find that
look-ahead bias and transaction costs have an interactive effect on delta-hedged call option
returns. While the bias on gross returns is upward, the bias for transaction costs is downward,
meaning the bias is magnified for net returns. Together, look-ahead bias and transaction costs
eliminate returns of common strategies and make understanding transaction costs and cost
mitigation strategies of utmost importance.
In the second set of results, we investigate the properties of transaction costs. We start by
investigating the cross-sectional relationship between portfolio sort variables and transaction
costs. We find that transaction costs are persistent and that a large percentage of the cross-
sectional variation in transaction costs can be predicted by variables related to size and
volatility. Next, we construct a time series of the average transaction costs across strategies
and decompose the series to understand the contribution of stock trading costs and option
trading costs. We find that over 80% of the strategy trading costs come from the option
transaction costs. Overall, transaction costs for trading the option portfolios we study have
been increasing over time; this is in contrast to the trend in equity markets, where transaction
costs have been decreasing over time (Jones, 2002; Angel, Harris, and Spatt, 2011). Finally,
we investigate the time series determinants of transaction costs. The strongest predictors
of average portfolio transaction costs are the VIX index, and the sentiment index of Baker
and Wurgler (2006). These results suggest that transaction costs are particularly high when
volatility and market sentiment are elevated and suggest that gross portfolio returns will be
particularly high during these periods.
In the third set of results, we focus on cost-mitigation strategies. We find that cost miti-
gation strategies have a large impact on average returns. The returns of all strategies increase
after cost mitigation. However, only a handful of strategy returns become significant. The
most effective simple cost mitigation strategy, which uses ‘hold-to-maturity’ option returns
that avoid paying transaction costs to exit the strategy, results in three significant long-short
portfolios. When we combine this strategy with a limitation on the universe of investable
options with relatively lower trading costs, we increase the number of significant anomalies
to four.
2

========== PAGE 4 ==========

We then show the returns to a novel cost mitigation strategy that relies on specific features
of the options market. We provide analysis that motivates a focus on long-only portfolios;
Figure 5 shows that, on average, across the 24 sorting variables, gross returns grow faster
than transaction costs as we move from the bottom to the top decile. We examine long-only
portfolios and portfolios that hedge the volatility risk in the long portfolio with a fixed position
in market index volatility risk. This novel cost mitigation strategy is the most successful,
increasing the number of significant long-short portfolios to seven. The return magnitudes
are economically significant, ranging from 36bp to 114bp per month. These results emphasize
the importance of applying cost mitigation strategies in general and tailoring these strategies
to the specific features of option markets in particular.
Finally, we show that the decision of hedging frequency is crucial once we take stock-
trading costs into account. Our main analysis uses strategies that delta-hedge once on the
portfolio formation date and then focuses on the impact of varying the strategy entry date
and holding period. We also show that holding the formation date and holding period
constant, the decision of how frequently to delta hedge has a large impact on strategy return
characteristics. Using a strategy that is delta-hedged daily until maturity, approximately
50% of the strategy trading costs come from the stock transaction costs. The key tradeoff
is between strategy mean returns and variance. In the absence of transaction costs, delta-
hedging daily typically increases Sharpe ratios through a reduction in variance. However, in
the presence of stock trading costs, delta-hedging each day reduces the average returns to
the point that it offsets the benefit of variance reduction. This highlights that transaction
costs are a first-order consideration when measuring returns in option markets and that the
impact of stock trading costs (rarely considered) depends on the return construction.
We contribute to the literature on asset pricing and transaction costs. A large literature
focuses on the impact of trading costs on equity investment. Novy-Marx and Velikov (2016)
show that transaction costs reduce all anomaly returns but that high-turnover strategies
are impacted most heavily. Detzel, Novy-Marx, and Velikov (2023) show that transaction
costs are essential for making sensible model comparisons, and DeMiguel, Martin-Utrera,
Nogales, and Uppal (2020) show that transaction costs are essential for understanding the
number of significant anomalies. Focusing on the short legs of anomalies, Stambaugh, Yu,
and Yuan (2012) find higher returns following high periods of sentiment, suggesting that
mispricing drives those returns. Muravyev, Pearson, and Pollet (2022) find that anomalies
do not survive adjustments for the transaction costs associated with short-selling shares.
Chen and Velikov (2023) find that adjustments for post-publication bias and transaction
costs eliminate the returns on the average anomaly. Thus, transaction costs are an issue of
first-order importance in many asset pricing contexts, and we contribute to this literature by
3

========== PAGE 5 ==========

analyzing the importance of transaction costs for option strategies.
Our work is related to a large body of literature on single stock option risk premia.
Coval and Shumway (2001) is the seminal paper suggesting that known stock risks do not
span option risk, and thus options provide exposure to a volatility risk factor. Carr and
Wu (2004) show that both index options and single stock options contain a risk premium.
Driessen and Maenhout (2007) show that options should be included in investor portfolios
under quite general conditions. Goyal and Saretto (2009) are the first to show one can create
long-short portfolios of delta-hedged option returns to capture risk premia. Cao and Han
(2013) show that a stock market variable can be used to predict returns on single stock
options, and Zhan et al. (2022) show generally that multiple variables can predict option
returns. There is now a burgeoning literature documenting option return anomalies and
suggesting factor models to explain those anomalies (Horenstein, Vasquez, and Xiao, 2022;
Goyal and Saretto, 2022). The results in this paper help us understand whether these factors
tell us about return patterns that are maintained because of friction or investor preferences.
Furthermore, our work affects the design of empirical factor models; for example, whether
we conclude that we have an emerging ‘factor zoo’ in option markets depends on how we
account for implementation costs.
Empirical option researchers typically consider the impact of three frictions; the cost
of trading the option, the cost of trading the stock, and margin costs. The impact on
returns depends on which transaction costs are considered, the assumptions made, and sample
construction details. For example, Neumann and Skiadopoulos (2013) find that the economic
significance of an option strategy in S&P 500 index options disappears once they consider
trading costs for the option contract. Furthermore, to avoid excessive stock transaction
costs associated with delta hedging, Goyal and Saretto (2009), and others hold the option
position for one month without rebalancing the delta hedges to limit the impact of transaction
costs. Other studies consider different combinations of stock, option, and margin costs (Zhan
et al., 2022; Heston, Jones, Khorram, Li, and Mo, 2023). Overall, different studies use
different samples, different return construction methods, and different methods to adjust
for transaction costs. We do not have a good understanding of which costs matter for
which strategies and how costs vary over time and in the cross-section. We contribute to
this literature by providing a comprehensive analysis of option returns after adjustment for
transaction costs.
4

========== PAGE 6 ==========

2 Data and Variables
This section introduces the data and key variables. Section 2.1 details the sample construc-
tion. Section 2.2 details the predictor variables used in the paper. Finally, Section 2.3 details
how we construct the option returns and adjust them for transaction costs.
2.1 Sample construction
Data on end-of-day option prices, volume, and option risk characteristics come from Option-
metrics. Data on underlying stock prices, market capitalization, adjustments for stock splits,
and dividends comes from the CRSP. We use the WRDS link table to merge Optionmetrics
data with CRSP. Data on stock transaction costs comes from the TAQ database, and we use
the WRDS link table to merge CRSP data with TAQ data. Our sample includes options on
common stocks with CRSP share codes of 10 and 11 and a stock price of at least five dollars
on the portfolio formation date. For the construction of some predictor variables, we use
COMPUSTAT and I/B/E/S data.
Duarte et al. (2023) highlight that one of the most common sample construction tech-
niques in the literature is subject to a look-ahead bias. In essence, the filters applied to option
prices at the date of the strategy exit are correlated with strategy returns. Thus, we use their
sample construction to avoid look-ahead bias. 2 At each month-end, we extract all call and
put options for each optionable stock and then apply the following filters to these options
in order to minimize the effect of erroneous recording: (1) Bid prices are positive; (2) The
midpoint of the quoted bid and ask prices is at least $1/8; (3) The midpoint of the quoted
bid and ask prices do not violate no-arbitrage conditions; (4) The underlying stock does not
pay a dividend during the remaining life of the option. This makes the early exercises of
options suboptimal, so the investigated American options are effectively European options.
To make this filter feasible, we only drop options whose dividend-paying declaration date is
before the portfolio formation date, and the ex-distribution date lies between the portfolio
formation date and the expiration date simultaneously; (5) We retain options with positive
total trading volume in the month preceding the portfolio formation date to avoid extremely
illiquid options; (6) We exclude options with bid price larger than or equal to the ask price
at the portfolio formation date; (7) We retain options with moneyness between 0 .8 and 1 .2
2The look-ahead bias has two dimensions. First, common filters applied to data at the end of the holding
period remove options that become deep in the money (ITM) or deep out of the money (OTM). These deep
OTM/ITM options would have resulted in negative returns for delta-neutral call-writing strategies. Second,
when used to form portfolios, characteristics associated with high stock-price volatility would systematically
have more deep ITM/OTM options at the end of the portfolio period and thus result in portfolios that
effectively sort on the bias.
5

========== PAGE 7 ==========

where moneyness equals to stock price divided by the strike price.
After applying these filters to each extracted option at the month-end date, for each
optionable stock, we choose a pair of options (one call and one put) that are closest to being
at the money and have the shortest time to maturity among options with more than 30 days
to expiration. The vast majority of options retained each month have the same maturity, so
we drop options with maturity different from the majority. Finally, we only keep stocks with
both call and put options available after the filtering process as the final sample.
After application of these filters, we have a sample of 255,240 observations. However,
because our one-month (hold-to-maturity) returns require option price and stock price data
(stock price data) one month later (on the maturity date), we would be subject to a subtle
form of look-ahead-bias if we dropped stocks with missing data after the portfolio formation
date. This look-ahead bias could be important for expected return measurement if the
dropped observations were correlated with particular return realizations. We find that 676
(1,010) observations are missing when we attempt to calculate one-month (hold-to-maturity)
returns. We use the delisting codes in CRSP and find that these missing returns are due to
merger announcements, exchanges, and delistings. We then fill in returns using the following
procedure. First, if a delisting price exists in CRSP, we use that price to calculate the option
price at month’s end (payoff at maturity). If the delisting price is missing, we use the last
traded price multiplied by the delisting return. Finally, if the delisting returns are missing,
we use the procedure of Fu (2014) and replace the missing return with the average returns
for the same exchange and delisting reason. Filling in these missing stock prices allows us to
calculate hold-to-maturity returns by calculating the exercise value. For one-month returns,
we fill in option prices using the Black, Scholes, and Merton model price (using the option
implied volatility at the portfolio formation date as an input) and the average option spread
in that period. 3
In some tests, we use an alternative strategy that involves forming portfolios on the third
Friday of each month and holding the position until maturity (see Goyal and Saretto (2009);
Heston et al. (2023)); this allows us to construct a monthly return that is held to maturity
and avoids paying transaction costs to exit option positions. In contrast, the hold-to-maturity
return formed at the end of each month would have a holding period longer than 30 days on
average. For this sample, excepting the maturity filter, we use the same filters applied above.
Table 1 contains summary statistics of the options used in our study. Statistics for our
main sample of buy-and-hold one-month returns are contained in Table 1 Panel A. We have a
total of 255,240 observations spanning a time period from September 2003 to December 2021.
3Results are similar if we simply drop those missing values. In Table A1, we show the impact on portfolio
returns of this potential look-ahead bias. The largest reduction in returns is 7bp for the IVOL portfolio.
6

========== PAGE 8 ==========

The availability of the TAQ effective spread data limits the sample period. Our statistics
are otherwise comparable with the literature. The monthly buy-and-hold return has a mean
of 0.46%, with a large standard deviation of 8.9%. The maturities of selected options have
a median of 50 days with a tight distribution (the 25th and 75th percentiles are 49 and 51,
respectively). In particular, we note the large magnitude of quoted option bid-ask spreads.
We show the spreads at the point of entry and exit of the buy-and-hold option position. The
average spread at entry is 24% while the average spread at exit is 57%. This is because at
entry, options are constrained to be at the money, while at exit, they can be very deep out-of-
the-money with potentially large percentage spreads. 4 The average effective stock spread at
entry and exit is 0.13%. 5 Panel B contains the summary statistics for buy-and-hold returns
with the same portfolio formation date as Panel A but are held until option maturity rather
than being exited after one month. Finally, Panel C contains summary statistics for the
sample of returns that has a formation date on the third Friday of each month, where option
positions are held to maturity.
2.2 Predictor variables
We use a comprehensive set of variables investigated by the literature. In total, we investigate
the ability of 24 variables to predict equity-option returns. We start with the 13 variables
investigated by Zhan et al. (2022). This includes ten stock characteristics and three additional
control variables, which are the volatility mispricing measure from Goyal and Saretto (2009),
idiosyncratic volatility as used in Cao and Han (2013), and the Amihud (2002) liquidity
measure. We also include 11 other variables suggested by the option literature. We include
volatility of volatility (Ruan, 2020), option price, option illiquidity (Christoffersen, Goyenko,
Jacobs, and Karoui, 2018), risk-neutral skewness (Bali and Murray, 2013), and volatility term
structure (Vasquez, 2017). We include option momentum and reversal, which are found to
predict option returns in Heston et al. (2023).6 Finally, we follow Horenstein et al. (2022) and
include firm size, book-to-market-equity, momentum, and reversal because they are common
predictors of stock returns. We provide a brief description of each variable here and provide
4This suggests another dimension to the look-ahead bias of Duarte et al. (2023); sample filters applied
to future data that increase returns by removing deep ITM or OTM options will simultaneously reduce
transaction costs at strategy exit. Thus, the impact of look-ahead bias should be even larger for net returns.
5We winsorize the measure of effective spread at the upper 99.5% of the distribution to deal with a limited
number of outliers that seem to be recording errors. In cases where the TAQ effective spread is missing, we
fill in those values using the quoted bid-ask spread from CRSP; if it is still missing, we use the average spread
for that month.
6We note that the main results in Heston et al. (2023) focus on straddle returns and use an alternative
filtering procedure to maximize the available data on past option returns. Thus we do not directly replicate
their implementation, which is robust to the inclusion of transaction costs. We find that the option momentum
strategy has positive and significant returns after transaction costs in Table 10.
7

========== PAGE 9 ==========

detailed variable construction information in Appendix A.1.
1. CFV: Cash flow variance, calculated as the variance of the monthly ratio of cash flow
to the market value of equity over the last 60 months as in Haugen and Baker (1996).
Cash flow is net income plus depreciation and amortization, all scaled by market value
of equity.
2. CH: The cash-to-assets ratio, computed as the value of corporate cash holdings over
the value of the firm’s total assets as in Palazzo (2012).
3. DISP: Analyst earnings forecast dispersion, computed as the standard deviation of an-
nual earnings-per-share forecasts scaled by the absolute value of the average outstanding
forecasts as in Diether, Malloy, and Scherbina (2002).
4. ISSUE 1Y: 1-year new issues, measured as the change in shares outstanding from 11
months ago as in Pontiff and Woodgate (2008).
5. ISSUE 5Y: 5-year new issues, measured as five-year composite change in number of
shares outstanding as in Daniel and Titman (2006).
6. PM: Profit margin, calculated as earnings before interest and tax scaled by revenues as
in Soliman (2008).
7. Ln(PRICE): The log of the stock price at the end of last month, as in Blume and Husic
(1973).
8. PROFIT: Profitability, calculated as earnings divided by book equity, in which earnings
are defined as income before extraordinary items as in Fama and French (2006).
9. TEF: Total external financing, calculated as net share issuance plus net debt issuance
minus cash dividends, scaled by total assets as in Bradshaw, Richardson, and Sloan
(2006).
10. ZS: Z-Score, (1.2 ×(Working Capital / Assets) + 1.4 ×(Retained Earnings / Assets) +
3.3×(EBIT / Assets) + 0.6×(Market Value of Equity / Book Value of Total Liabilities)
+ (Revenues / Assets)). Higher values of ZS indicate a lower probability of bankruptcy
as in Dichev (1998).
11. VOL deviation: Volatility mispricing, calculated as the log difference between the real-
ized volatility and Black-Scholes implied volatility for at-the-money options as in Goyal
and Saretto (2009).
8

========== PAGE 10 ==========

12. IVOL: Idiosyncratic volatility, computed as the standard deviation of the regression
residual of individual stock returns on the Fama and French (1993) three factors using
daily data in the previous month as in Ang, Hodrick, Xing, and Zhang (2006) and Cao
and Han (2013).
13. AMIHUD: The Amihud (2002) stock illiquidity measure, calculated as the average of
the daily ratio of the absolute stock return to dollar volume over the previous month.
14. Size: the natural logarithm of the market value of the firm’s equity as in Fama and
French (1993).
15. BM: Book-to-market ratio, measured as the ratio of book equity to market equity as
in Fama and French (1993).
16. Stock REV: Stock return reversal, measured as the lagged one-month return as in
Jegadeesh and Titman (1993).
17. Stock MOM: Stock return momentum, the cumulative return on the stock over the 11
months ending at the beginning of the previous month as in Jegadeesh and Titman
(1993).
18. VTS: The slope of the volatility term structure, measured as the difference between
long-term and short-term implied volatilities as in Vasquez (2017).
19. VOV: Volatility of volatility, as in Ruan (2020). Measured as the standard deviation
of implied volatility in the past month.
20. Option MOM: Option return momentum, calculated as the cumulative option return
on the stock over the 11 months ending at the beginning of the previous month where
there is no missing past return as in Heston et al. (2023).
21. Option REV: Option return reversal, measured as lagged one-month option return as
in Heston et al. (2023).
22. Option Price: The option price.
23. ILLIQ: Option illiquidity as suggested in Christoffersen et al. (2018). This is measured
using the quoted option bid-ask spread.
24. RN SKEW: Risk neutral skewness as in Bali and Murray (2013). We use the 30-day
risk-neutral skewness. The construction follows Bakshi and Kapadia (2003).
9

========== PAGE 11 ==========

2.3 Option returns calculation and adjustment for transaction costs
The basic unit of analysis is a delta-hedged position in a written call option. For each
stock and each portfolio formation date, we calculate the returns to a strategy that sells one
contract of the call option and hedges that position with a long position of delta shares of the
underlying stock. The position is held for one month to compute the buy-and-hold return.
Our return construction is standard in the literature (Goyal and Saretto, 2009; Zhan et al.,
2022). Holding the position without rebalancing keeps the exposition simple and minimizes
costs from adjusting the hedge. After constructing returns, we sort firms into decile portfolios
depending on the levels of predictor variables. If portfolio returns decrease in a predictor
variable, we sort on the negative value of the signal to make the long-short portfolio return
positive.
Let S(t) be the stock price at time t, C(t) be the midpoint of the bid and ask prices for
the call, ∆ t be the Black-Scholes delta of the option contract at time t, and K be the option
strike price. The return to selling a delta-neutral call at time t and holding the position until
time t + 1, before accounting for transaction costs (‘gross’) is:
rgross
t = ∆tSt+1 − Ct+1
∆tSt − Ct
− 1.
We add transaction costs to this. We need to consider the transaction costs associated
with the option position itself, and the stock trading for the delta-hedge. To operationalize
the adjustment of option returns for transaction costs, we must make some assumptions.
Boyer and Vorkink (2014) use trade and quote data for a small sample of exchange-traded
options in 2011 and find that almost half of the trades occur at the ask price, suggesting
investors incur high costs to trading options. On the other hand, Muravyev and Pearson
(2020) find predictability in options quotes of options on S&P500 stocks, implying that
informed traders can take liquidity at favorable prices. Because we don’t have trade and
quote data to estimate effective spreads for options, we follow Heston et al. (2023) and use
the insight of Muravyev and Pearson (2020) that sophisticated option traders can time their
execution to lower effective spreads and assume that option traders pay 20.3% of the quoted
half spread for options. This is a conservative assumption and increases the possibility of
portfolio returns surviving transaction costs.
The delta-hedged option position requires trading of the underlying stock. For stocks,
we assume that traders pay half the effective spread when they enter or exit a position in
the underlying stock. This is measured using the dollar-weighted effective daily spread from
TAQ.
When we account for transaction costs for stock options in decile portfolios, we must
10

========== PAGE 12 ==========

account for the possibility that options on the same stock can enter the portfolio in consecutive
months, which will mean some of the stock position for the delta hedge can be carried over.
We give an overview of the formula here, assuming the stock is in the long decile portfolio
so that on the formation date, the option is sold, and the stock is purchased. We provide
additional details in Appendix B.
For an option in the long portfolio formed at the end of month t, and held until t + 1, the
total transaction costs equal:
T Ct,t+1 = StockBuyT C t + StockSaleT C t+1
+ OptionSaleT Ct + OptionBuyT Ct+1
and the portfolio formation cost with transaction costs equal to
F ormCostt = (∆tSt − Ct) + StockBuyT C t + OptionSaleT Ct.
Therefore, the buy-and-hold one-month return of a written call position formed at the
end of month t after accounting stock and option transaction costs (‘net’) can be written:
rnet
t = (∆tSt+1 − Ct) − T Ct,t+1
F ormCostt
− 1. (1)
We note that the transaction costs have a similar form when we take a short position in
a portfolio consisting of written and delta-hedged options. This trade involves buying a call
and selling delta shares on the formation date, and then one month later selling the option
and buying back delta shares to cover the short stock position.
If one writes a call option and holds it to maturity, one avoids paying the transaction
costs required to exit the position (while potentially paying costs associated with the exercise
of the option). This involves a slightly different accounting for transaction costs due to the
possibility that an option expires in the money and shares may need to be delivered (received).
We detail this accounting in Appendix B.4. The returns to this alternative strategy are
explored in detail in Section 3.3.
3 Results
3.1 Long-short portfolio returns and transaction costs
In this section, we provide gross portfolio returns and returns that are net of transaction costs.
We note, like Detzel et al. (2023), that even if portfolio returns net of transaction costs
11

========== PAGE 13 ==========

are insignificant, they can still reveal important information about frictions and investor
behavioral biases. For example, if a strategy has high gross returns that do not survive
adjustment costs, it suggests models of mispricing combined with limited arbitrage. On the
other hand, strategies with high returns net of transaction costs suggest a different type of
explanation, such as investor preferences to be compensated for marginal utility variation
associated with the strategy.
We start by sorting firms into decile portfolios at each month-end based on the values
of our 24 predictor variables. We then calculate the equally weighted average of buy-and-
hold one-month option returns in these portfolios, as well as a long-short portfolio, which
is long options in the top decile and short options in the bottom decile. Table 2 contains
results. Looking at the results in column “ E[rgross
10−1 ],” we see that 17 of the 24 predictor
variables give a significant long-short return spread. Some of these results are novel to the
literature; Duarte et al. (2023) show the importance of a look-ahead bias adjustment for
delta-hedged option returns using the 13 variables from Zhan et al. (2022). 7 One may worry
that these returns compensate for well-understood risk factors documented in the equity
market. Table A4 shows the factor returns adjusted for risk using the Fama and French
(2015) five-factor model or a simple market (volatility) model. The risk adjustment does
not impact the average excess return, suggesting that the excess returns earned by these
strategies are not due to equity factor exposure or market volatility exposure. Next, we
adjust these returns for transaction costs. Figure 1 helps to visualize the main results. Some
long-short portfolios have insignificant returns even before accounting for transaction costs,
so we do not show their returns after adjustment. The remaining long-short portfolios have
significantly negative returns after adjustment. The column “ E[rnet
10−1]” in Table 2 contains
the results. The most striking result is that none of the long-short portfolios have a positive
and significant return after adjustment for transaction costs, even given our conservative
assumptions about transaction costs. In fact, only one variable, V OL deviation provides
a positive return after adjusting for transaction costs, owing to transaction costs, investors
would lose money investing in these strategies. In Table 3, we show the contribution of
different transaction costs for each anomaly. Although we don’t include margin costs in the
main analysis for brevity, we include them for reference. Stock transaction costs are typically
two to four times the size of margin costs, and option transaction costs are six to ten times
the magnitude of stock transaction costs. We note that the relatively lower importance of
stock-transaction costs depends heavily on the return construction method - in Section 4,
we show that stock-trading costs can account for over 50% of the strategy costs when we
7Our sample starts in September 2003, which is when the TAQ effective spread data becomes available.
In Appendix Table A2, we show the impact of sample period selection on the results for gross returns.
12

========== PAGE 14 ==========

delta-hedge daily and hold the option until maturity.
3.2 Analysis of transaction costs
Results in the preceding section reveal that transaction costs have a large impact on the
profitability of option strategies. In this section, we investigate the cross-sectional and time
series determinants of transaction costs.
To examine the cross-sectional relationship between predictive variables and transaction
costs, we use Fama and MacBeth (1973) regressions of transaction costs on predictive vari-
ables. In particular, we use the regression specification:
T Ci,t,t+1 = a + b × T Ci,t−1,t + c × Xi,t + εi,t, t = 1, .., T
Where T Ci,t−1,t is the lagged transaction costs for the buy-and-hold one-month return
for the option on stock i, and Xt represents other variables that can potentially predict
transaction costs. The transaction cost is defined as the stock transaction costs (effective
bid-ask spreads) plus option transaction costs (effective bid-ask spreads equal to 20.3% times
quoted bid-ask spreads) scaled by the formation costs accounting for position entry costs.
Results are shown in Table 4. In the cross-section, lagged percentage transaction costs are
the strongest predictor in terms of adjusted R-squared, which implies that costs are very
persistent. This is important, as it means to the extent that costs are stable and expected
returns change over time, there is a chance of finding strategies that avoid these costs. In
univariate regressions, we find that firm size (in logs), idiosyncratic volatility, log price,
and the volatility of implied volatility are significantly related to transaction costs. 8 This
means options on small volatile stocks that are potentially difficult to price have the largest
transaction costs. Looking at the adjusted R2 in column (6), we can see that most of the
univariate variables are significant predictors in a multivariate regression and that almost 50%
of the cross-sectional variation in transaction costs can be explained by these variables. We
note that the logarithm of market capitalization seems to drive out the economic significance
of the log price predictor, and similarly, the sign on stock idiosyncratic volatility flips, and its
economic magnitude diminishes in a multivariate regression. This suggests that the volatility
of implied volatility is a more important predictor of transaction costs than stock idiosyncratic
volatility. These results signal that any characteristics related to size, volatility, or pricing
8In untabulated results, we find that 23 of our 24 characteristics can significantly predict transaction costs
in univariate regressions. For brevity, we focus on variables suggested by the literature that have predictive
power after controlling for lagged transaction costs.
13

========== PAGE 15 ==========

difficulty of options may relate to high gross returns without necessarily translating to high
net-of-transaction cost returns.
To examine the time-series variation in transaction costs, we take an equal-weighted aver-
age of the transaction costs for the 17 significant portfolios in Table 2 to understand trading
costs. In terms of the level of transaction costs, Figure 3 shows that overall, transaction costs
for trading portfolios with high long-short returns have been increasing during our sample
period. We note that trading costs spiked during the COVID-19 crisis. We also decompose
the costs to highlight the contribution of stock and option-related trading costs. Figure 2
shows results. On average, over 80% of the costs can be attributed to the costs of trading
the option and the remainder to stock trading costs. 9 These results suggest that the costs of
trading long-short option portfolios have been increasing over our sample period. This is in
contrast to trading costs in the stock market which have been decreasing over time (Jones,
2002; Angel et al., 2011). 10
Understanding the time series properties of transaction costs is important. While the
entry costs to a strategy can be decided ahead of time, the costs of exiting the strategy
are unknown, and this will present a significant risk to delta-hedged option investors who
plan to exit their position before maturity. We use time series regressions to understand
the determinants of transaction costs. Table 5 contains estimation results of regressing the
average transaction costs on lagged predictor variables. Lagged transaction costs are highly
persistent. Other than lagged transaction costs, the level of the CBOE Volatility Index
(VIX) and the market-wide sentiment index of Baker and Wurgler (2006) are the only other
predictors with a significant relation to the time series of transaction costs. These results
motivate our later analysis that explores the difference between buy-and-hold option returns
that are rebalanced after one month and hold-to-maturity option returns that avoid this exit
cost.
3.3 Cost-mitigation strategies
The previous section showed that transaction costs eliminate the returns to all option return
strategies. However, these strategies were not designed with transaction costs in mind.
In this section, we investigate several cost mitigation strategies. Our buy-and-hold return,
9In Figure 6, we repeat the decomposition for strategies where the portfolio is delta-hedged daily and held
for one month (Panel A) or until maturity (Panel B). We see that the relative importance of stock trading
costs increases substantially.
10In Figure A1, we show the average transaction costs at the end of each month for our sample universe
and find that option trading costs have increased significantly since around 2014. Thus, findings in Figure 2
of an increase in trading costs are not isolated to the trading costs of decile portfolios sorted on certain
characteristics.
14

========== PAGE 16 ==========

which delta-hedges the portfolio only once on the formation date, already applies some cost
mitigation. We further note that cost-mitigation strategies cannot simply be adapted directly
from the equity anomaly literature. For example, banding — which mitigates the transaction
costs through reducing the turnover of stocks — is an effective cost mitigation strategy
for equity trading strategies investigated in Novy-Marx and Velikov (2016) and Chen and
Velikov (2023). However, because options expire, they must be re-purchased, so turnover
(and transaction costs) may not be avoided. In the same vein, the strategy of rebalancing
at a lower frequency (say quarterly rather than monthly) is not applicable to our options
portfolios.
With this in mind, we adapt some strategies from the equity literature to our context
and also analyze the returns on some novel transaction-cost mitigation strategies. First, we
analyze filters that limit the universe of allowed options to those with low option transaction
costs. Second, we analyze the returns of hold-to-maturity strategies, which avoid some option
transaction costs by holding until the option maturity date. Finally, we analyze returns to
novel cost mitigation strategies that involve long-only portfolios and portfolios that minimize
the cost of hedging out market volatility risk.
3.3.1 Low-cost universe
Limiting the stock universe to those with low costs is an effective cost mitigation strategy as
investigated in Novy-Marx and Velikov (2016) and Chen and Velikov (2023). The transaction
costs of options are determined by bid-ask spread, so it is natural to restrict the option bid-
ask spread below a predetermined threshold. Heston et al. (2023), for example, retain options
with quoted bid-ask spread below 10% to form the low-cost universe. We note that because
the average transaction cost is increasing over time, applying a filter based on the absolute
level of the transaction cost may remove relatively more data from late in the sample. To
deal with this, we apply a relative filter and keep stocks in the bottom four deciles of option
transaction costs, which approximates the 10% filter while keeping a balanced sample over
time. Once we have filtered out high option-transaction-cost stocks, we then construct the
portfolios and adjust for transaction costs as before.
3.3.2 Hold-to-maturity
As shown in Figure 2, options trading costs account for the largest proportion of transaction
costs of the delta-hedged call option writing strategy. In earlier sections, we used a strategy
that held options for one month from the end of each formation month before rebalancing at
the end of the next month. One transaction cost mitigation strategy suggested by Zhan et al.
15

========== PAGE 17 ==========

(2022) is to hold each option in the portfolio until expiration. This means we can reduce the
number of option trades required by half.
This hold-to-maturity strategy gives a continuous monthly series of returns. Because
the maturity of these strategies will be longer than 30 days, we will adjust the returns to a
30-day basis. However, even with this adjustment, the average returns will not be directly
comparable to the buy-and-hold option returns that hold options for one month. First,
because each option has a median maturity of 50 days, from day 30 to day 50, we will
potentially have two options for some stocks in the portfolio, and in general, we will invest
in twice as many options for this period. Furthermore, the returns could be mechanically
different because when held to maturity, the option gamma is higher when the option is close
to maturity.11
3.3.3 Results of simple cost-mitigation strategies
The results can be seen in Table 6. For comparison, the column “ E[rmon
all ]” displays the buy-
and-hold one-month long-short portfolio returns adjusted for transaction costs as in Table 2.
Because the hold-to-maturity strategies can have a different number of days to maturity, to
make returns using different methods comparable, we rescale all returns to a 30-day basis
in this section. First, we focus on cost-mitigation strategies applied to the one-month buy-
and-hold return series that limit the universe of investable stock options before allocating
stock options to portfolios. Looking at results in the column “ E[rmon
lc ]”, which contains
returns when the universe of stocks is limited to those with lower option bid-ask spreads,
we see (relative to the first column) large increases in returns. However, returns are still
insignificant and typically negative after adjustment for transaction costs.
Next, we look at the hold-to-maturity returns, where returns are based on strategies
formed at the end of the month or the third Friday of the month (columns “ E[rmat
all ]” and
“E[rmat2
all ]”, respectively). These cost mitigation strategies avoid paying some transaction
costs by holding the option to maturity. We first look at the hold-to-maturity returns of
portfolios formed at the end of each month. Multiple long-short portfolios become significant
using this cost mitigation strategy. The difference between implied and historical volatility
from Goyal and Saretto (2009), the volatility of volatility from Ruan (2020), and Cash-to-
assets (introduced by Zhan et al. (2022)) all become significant with this cost mitigation
11Dew-Becker, Giglio, Le, and Rodriguez (2017) highlight that for index options, the returns are relatively
larger for short-maturity options with a relatively higher gamma.
16

========== PAGE 18 ==========

strategy.12 We noted earlier that the hold-to-maturity returns formed at the end of each
month can result in overlapping option positions which might make the comparison with the
one-month returns difficult. Thus in the column “ E[rmat2
all ]” we focus on returns that are
constructed on the third Friday of each month and held until maturity (approximately 30
days). For this return construction, the portfolios formed on V OV are no longer significant,
but portfolios formed on −V OL deviation and CH remain significant. Figure 4 helps to
visualize the results for all of our 24 long-short portfolios; while the cost mitigation strategy
helps to increase the returns of multiple anomalies, only two become statistically significant.
These results underscore the importance of return construction for portfolio significance.
Next, we consider combinations of cost mitigation strategies. Namely, we combine hold-
to-maturity returns with restrictions on the universe of investable stock options. First, we
analyze hold-to-maturity returns with portfolios formed at the end of each month (column
“E[rmat
lc ]”). This strategy has some moderate success; for example, the idiosyncratic volatility
variable increases in magnitude and becomes significant when we combine hold-to-maturity
returns with a constraint on options with relatively high bid-ask spreads. Next, we analyze
returns of portfolios that are formed on the third Friday of each month and held until maturity
(column “E[rmat2
lc ]”). For this cost mitigation strategy, we find the highest number of long-
short portfolio returns that are significant at a 5% level. We find that V OL deviation, V OV ,
V T S, and CH are all significant with this cost mitigation strategy.
Overall, these results suggest that cost mitigation is an important consideration when
designing option portfolio strategies to capture due to high transaction costs. Many strategies
have high average returns after simple tweaks to the return construction or option contract
selection rules. Nonetheless, depending on the cost mitigation strategy used we only find
two to four long-short portfolios have significant returns. This means that the achievable
investment opportunity set is quite small and can be explained by a low-dimensional factor
model. Regarding consistency across methods, sorts on V OL deviation are most consistent,
with significant returns for four different cost mitigation strategies. V OV and CH are close
behind with significant returns for three cost mitigation strategies. Sorts on variables like
V T S and IV OL are significant for one cost-mitigation strategy each, and, notably, they
both rely on hold-to-maturity returns which both increase the overall gamma-exposure of
the option positions and limit the transaction costs paid for trading the options.
12Goyal and Saretto (2024) find significant returns after transaction costs for long short portfolios formed
using stock price and size, while we don’t. We replicate their result and trace the difference to two crucial
factors. Their sample includes firms with a stock price of less than 5 USD on the portfolio formation date,
and they delta hedge the strategy daily without accounting for stock trading costs. In Table 10, we can see
that delta hedging daily increases returns on these portfolios before accounting for stock transaction costs.
17

========== PAGE 19 ==========

3.3.4 Low-cost (market) volatility neutral portfolios
In the equity market, long-short portfolios are typically constructed for three main reasons.
First, we can generate a return series that does not load on market risk. In the context of
equity anomalies, we typically have a zero market beta on the long-short portfolio returns.
This implies that any positive average excess return must represent compensation for an
additional risk-factor loading or market inefficiency. Second, the short portfolio can be used
to take advantage of stock overpricing; indeed, Stambaugh et al. (2012) find that the returns
to the short legs of anomaly strategies are more profitable following high sentiment periods,
suggesting overpricing. Finally, long-short portfolios can, in theory, be constructed to be a
zero-cost strategy if we assume the proceeds from short-selling stock can be used to invest
in the long portfolio.
It’s important to reconsider these motivations for forming long-short portfolios when
analyzing equity-option returns. Figure 5 helps to visualize the main insight. When we
average the gross returns, transaction costs, and net returns across decile portfolios for all the
24 sort variables, we see that gross returns increase faster than transaction costs as we move
from the bottom to the top decile. This means that investments in low-decile portfolios, on
average, will not contribute much to the long-short portfolio return. Table 7 contains results
that help to analyze this issue for each individual portfolio sort variable. We calculate the
pre- and post-transaction cost returns for the top and bottom decile portfolios, respectively.
We note that as we go from the bottom to the top decile, the average returns grow faster
than the transaction costs. For example, for the V OL deviation portfolio sort, the returns
increase by 210bp (from -19bp to 191bp), while the transaction costs only increase by 26bp
(from 34bp to 60bp). This is a key insight because the transaction costs on this “short
portfolio,” which buys the option and sells the stock, can overwhelm any positive returns.
In this section, we suggest two novel cost mitigation strategies that take advantage of
this insight. First, because Table 7 suggests that the call writing strategies have the highest
returns in the top decile, we analyze the risk and returns of “long-only” option portfolios
that involve a delta-hedged written option position. Second, to address the concern that this
portfolio may represent compensation for loading on market volatility risk; we hedge this risk
by taking a weighted short position in the market index options. If the only clear advantage
of the short position in the long-short portfolio is creating neutrality to a market volatility
risk factor, this strategy will provide a cost-effective way of achieving the same aim.
It’s important to consider loadings of portfolios on market volatility risk because there
is evidence that market volatility risk is priced. Bakshi and Kapadia (2003) show how
delta-hedged gains can give qualitative information about market variance-risk-premia while
Carr and Wu (2008) show how to quantify the variance risk premium. In the context of
18

========== PAGE 20 ==========

single stock options, Driessen, Maenhout, and Vilkov (2009) show the connection between
individual stock and market volatility risk premium.
To achieve these aims, we calculate a time series of equity index option returns using delta-
hedged buy-and-hold to maturity returns of written call options. We choose the SPX options
on the Standard and Poor’s 500 index as our proxy for options on the market. We hedge the
position in this index by trading the SPY ETF. We can consider delta-hedged returns on these
options as a proxy for the market variance risk premium. Table 8 shows summary statistics
for delta-neutral call writing strategies on ATM index options with maturity matched to our
single stock options. The summary statistics highlight the low transaction costs of trading
(and delta-hedging) these options. The average quoted spread for these options is 4.16%
which is one-sixth the average quoted spread for single stock options reported in Table 1.
The results are displayed in Table 9. As shown in Table A4, the returns on strategies that
invest only in the top decile typically give high returns. One might be concerned that these
high returns compensate for loading on some risk factor, typically hedged using the bottom
decile portfolio. To analyze this issue we calculate market volatility loadings by regressing
the return of the portfolios on index option returns. The first two columns contain the
market-volatility loading for the bottom and top decile portfolio returns, respectively, and
we confirm that they both have a relatively high loading on the return of a written option on
the index. In the third column, we see that the long-short portfolio is often, but not always,
neutral to the index option risk. We then consider a strategy that is long the top decile
and short 0.9 units of the index option return. We find that the returns are approximately
volatility-beta neutral, suggesting this strategy can net out some risk.
In the two columns “ Ret(%)”, we show average returns to the investment in the top
decile strategy and the strategy that is long the top decile and short 0.9 units of the index
option. We find that returns are significant and positive for seven portfolio sort variables.
In particular we note that profit margin and profit become significant using this strategy.
However, one concern is that these strategies load on index option risk, which could be the
source of the relatively higher returns. In the last two columns, we show estimates of strategy
alphas. If the returns on the top decile portfolio are compensation for index-option risk, we
can perform a risk adjustment by regressing their returns on the index-option returns. The
alpha on the portfolio that is long the top decile is significant for an additional three variables,
all three variables are related to issuance and external financing. In the last column, we show
estimates for strategy alphas when we take a long position in the top decile and short 0.9
units of the index option. We do this because while returns to the top portfolio decile may
not load on market risk, they will still have high volatility when market volatility is high.
Portfolio sorts using option and stock-based characteristics provide significant returns using
19

========== PAGE 21 ==========

this cost mitigation strategy. For option characteristics, portfolios sorted on V OL deviation,
V OV , and V T S have positive and significant returns. For stock characteristics, IV OL, CH ,
P M, and P ROF IT all have significant returns. The significance of P M and P ROF IT are
particularly notable because cost mitigation strategies in Table 6 did not result in significant
returns for these variables. Furthermore, this strategy is significantly simpler logistically as
it replaces a position in a portfolio of single stock options with a position in one index option.
The overall message from these results is that the construction of portfolios to capture
returns in equity options should not directly follow the methods used in the literature for stock
returns. Regarding individual option characteristics, and depending on the cost mitigation
strategy employed, we find up to 10 of the 24 characteristics provide valuable information
for predicting option returns.
4 The impact of delta-hedge frequency
Throughout the paper, we use positions on options that are delta-hedged only once on the
portfolio formation date. However, another popular approach in the literature is to use
strategies that delta-hedge the option position once each day (Heston et al., 2023; Cao and
Han, 2013; Goyal and Saretto, 2022). Delta-hedging daily has the benefit of decreasing the
volatility of the investment by minimizing position volatility due to stock exposure (Tian
and Wu, 2023). On the other hand, in the presence of transaction costs, daily trading of
the stock may result in excessive transaction costs that can reduce the average return. In
this section, we empirically investigate this tradeoff between volatility reduction and mean
reduction of returns.
We start by considering the delta-hedged option gain following Bakshi and Kapadia
(2003). We consider a position in a call option, hedged N times during a period [ t, t + τ].
The delta-hedge position can be rebalanced at the dates tn, n = 1, . . . , N (where we define
t0 = t, tN = t + τ). The discrete delta-hedged call option gain over the period [ t, t + τ] is
Π[t, t + τ] = Ct+τ − Ct +
N −1X
n=0
∆c,tn [S(tn+1) − S(tn)] −
N −1X
n=0
anrtn
365 [C(tn) − ∆c,tnS(tn)]
where an is the number of calendar days between tn and tn+1 and rtn is the annualized risk
free rate.
We scale this by ∆∗S −C to calculate a return. To isolate the effects of hedging frequency,
we consider a position formed at the end of each month and held until maturity. We then
calculate returns where we hedge once, every ten trading days “Biweekly”, every five trading
days ”Weekly,” and every trading day “Daily.” For these cases, ∆ c,tn changes periodically,
20

========== PAGE 22 ==========

corresponding with the associated hedge frequency.13 As before, we use characteristics to sort
options into decile portfolios and calculate returns to a long-short decile portfolio. We also
calculate the stock turnover per position in each portfolio to understand how hedge frequency
affects the amount of stock traded.
To preview the importance of daily delta-hedging, we first take an average of transaction
costs across all long-short portfolios and then decompose the cost into a part driven by
stock trading costs and option trading costs. Figure 6 shows results. In Panel A we show
the decomposition for the daily delta-hedge one-month returns. This can be compared to
the decomposition in Figure 2, where we have the same strategy hedged only once on the
formation date. The difference comes from the increased hedging frequency, which increases
the relative importance of stock trading costs. In Panel B, we show the decomposition for
the strategy used in this section, i.e., for portfolios formed at the end of the month and
delta hedged until maturity. Delta hedging until the maturity date avoids paying option
transaction costs to exit the option position, this increases the relative importance of stock
trading costs which is now, on average, above 40% of the overall trading costs.
Results are contained in Table 10. For brevity, we report results for a subset of our full
sample of variables (results for all variables can be found in Table A6). We report average
returns, t-statistics, annual Sharpe ratios, and stock turnover for portfolios formed at the end
of each month and held until maturity. 14 The first four columns assess the impact of more
frequent hedging without transaction costs, and in the last four columns, we conduct the
same analysis while accounting for transaction costs. Focusing first on turnover (the number
in curly braces), we see that for all characteristics, the turnover more than doubles going
from hedging once to daily hedging. 15
Next, we focus on the effects of more frequent hedging in the absence of transaction costs.
We see that for option characteristics, more frequent hedging has only a modest effect on
strategy returns while decreasing strategy volatility significantly. For example, the Sharpe
ratio on the long-short portfolio formed using VOV increases from 2.01 to 3.36 as we move
from hedging once to hedging daily. For stock characteristics, it’s notable that more frequent
hedging can increase returns on portfolios formed on certain stock characteristics quite sub-
stantially: portfolios formed on −LN(P RICE ) and −Size increase by approximately 50bp
when we hedge daily relative to hedging once.
13If the value for delta is missing, we will forward the data from the last existing value to avoid any
look-ahead bias.
14The statistics for the strategies with transaction costs that are delta hedged once are almost identical to
those for ‘E[rmat
all ]’ in Table 6, the slight difference comes from the fact that in this section we use the formula
for a daily delta-hedged return which accounts for returns on a cash position.
15A turnover of 1 is consistent with buying 0.5 shares at the initiation and selling those shares at expiry
(if delta does not change). Thus a turnover of 2 is expected for a long-short portfolio.
21

========== PAGE 23 ==========

Next, we focus on the effects of hedging frequency after accounting for option transaction
costs in the last four columns. Because we hold until maturity, the effects of the option
transaction costs are the same for all strategies, allowing us to isolate the impact of stock
transaction costs.
For option characteristics, we find it possible to increase Sharpe ratios even in the face of
higher transaction costs due to stock turnover. For OptionM OM we find significant portfo-
lio returns when we delta-hedge weekly, and these returns do not survive the large increase
in costs associated with the move from weekly to daily hedging. For portfolios formed on
−V OL deviation and V OV , we find Sharpe ratios sometimes increase with hedging fre-
quency.
When we focus on portfolios formed using stock characteristics, results are in sharp con-
trast to those without transaction costs. Excepting the portfolio formed using CH , we do not
find significant returns for any portfolios. We also find that the burden of stock adjustment
costs overwhelms any benefit of variance reduction so that the increase in returns from daily
hedging observed without transaction costs does not survive stock transaction costs. These
results are important as researchers often make choices about which hedging frequency to
use without considering the impact of transaction costs.
5 Robustness Tests
5.1 Alternative portfolio weighting schemes
Thus far, we have equally weighted returns in our decile portfolios. In the equity market,
anomalies are well known to vary by stock size (Fama and French, 2008). Furthermore,
signals that seem to predict returns may no longer be valuable after the smallest stocks are
removed and returns are value-weighted (Hou, Xue, and Zhang, 2020). Researchers also
place less weight on anomalies that are only present in equal-weighted returns because it is
well-known that transaction costs are higher for these stocks. Our results in Table 4 similarly
suggest that size is related to the cost of trading option anomalies. Thus, a weighting scheme
that downweights returns on smaller stocks may improve the profitability of our long-short
portfolios. In this section, we explore this idea in two ways. First, we use a value-weighting
strategy which weights each stock using its market capitalization. Because option returns
are decreasing in size (e.g., see the portfolio sorts on -SIZE in Table 2), this strategy will
only increase returns after transaction costs if the reduction in returns due to putting more
weight on options on larger stocks is offset by lower transaction costs for trading the options
on those larger stocks. Second, we use “Option-Value-Weights,” which weighs returns by the
22

========== PAGE 24 ==========

market value of option open interest at the formation date (as used in Zhan et al. (2022)).
These weights emphasize stock options likely to have more trading and potentially lower
transaction costs.
Results are contained in Table A3. We apply different weighting schemes to two of our
return strategies. The first three columns contain results for the buy-and-hold one-month
returns with restrictions on the universe of investable options. The last three columns contain
results for the hold-to-maturity returns, where portfolios are formed on the third Friday of
each month.
Focusing first on the buy-and-hold one-month returns in the first three columns, we see
that putting more weight on stock options with larger market-capitalization stocks or option
open interest typically increases returns. However, it is only in the case of the idiosyncratic
volatility and volatility deviation sorts that conclusions about the significance of long-short
portfolio returns are changed. We note that these two variables are significant using multiple
cost mitigation strategies. Looking at the results in the last three columns (which focus
on the strategy formed on the third Friday and held until maturity), we come to a similar
conclusion: reweighting portfolios towards larger stocks (or stocks with a higher market value
of open interest) typically increases returns. Still, it does not change conclusions about the
statistical significance of the strategies we analyze.
5.2 Adjustment for risk
In this section, we consider whether the portfolio returns we observe (prior to adjusting for
transaction costs) could be compensation for well-documented risks in the equity market.
Because we consider option returns that are delta-hedged only once, they could have stock
exposure and potentially load on existing anomalies. Likewise, some of the option portfolios
may provide compensation for market volatility risk. While there is no established factor
model for risk adjustment in the context of delta-hedged single stock option returns, we
adjust the returns using the five-factor model of Fama and French (2015) and a simple
market volatility model by adjusting for the delta-hedged return on the S&P 500 index
option. Table A4 contains results. We observe that the long-short portfolio return alphas
are around the same magnitude as the unadjusted average returns.
5.3 Put options
Our main results focus on portfolios of delta-neutral call returns. One might wonder if our
results are driven by the use of call options in particular. In this section, we replicate our
main analysis in Table 2 using put options. Because our sample construction requires both
23

========== PAGE 25 ==========

a call and a put option with certain characteristics to exist on the portfolio formation date,
our sample is identical. So, any difference in results will come from the difference in option
type rather than the sample composition. For each characteristic, we sort firms into decile
portfolios and then calculate the returns to investing in a long-short portfolio before and after
accounting for transaction costs. As in Table 2, we use portfolios that are formed at month
end and use buy-and-hold one-month returns accounting for stock and option transaction
costs. The results are contained in Table A5. First, we note that 16 long-short portfolios are
significant at a 5% level using put options, almost the same as the 17 significant long-short
portfolios for call options. Second, we can see that the main qualitative result of the paper
holds; that multiple characteristics that lead to significant long-short gross portfolio returns
lead to negative net returns once we adjust for transaction costs.
6 Conclusion
This paper explores the impact of adjusting delta-hedged option returns for transaction costs
and look-ahead bias. We study returns of long-short portfolios formed using 24 different vari-
ables, and 17 lead to significant gross portfolio returns. None of the studied long-short port-
folios have significant returns after adjusting for transaction costs. Simple cost mitigation
strategies can increase returns by a large margin and restore significance to some portfo-
lios. We introduce a novel cost-mitigation strategy utilizing index options and find that it
dominates existing cost-mitigation strategies. We show that daily-delta hedged strategies
require significant additional trading, and while they reduce strategy variance, the reduction
in average returns due to additional trading costs typically makes the strategy unattractive.
Overall, considering transaction costs is essential for measuring option returns.
24

========== PAGE 26 ==========

References
Amihud, Y. (2002). Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects.Journal
of Financial Markets 5 (1), 31–56.
Ang, A., R. J. Hodrick, Y. Xing, and X. Zhang (2006). The cross-section of volatility and
expected returns. The journal of finance 61 (1), 259–299.
Angel, J. J., L. E. Harris, and C. S. Spatt (2011). Equity trading in the 21st century. The
Quarterly Journal of Finance 1 (01), 1–53.
Baker, M. and J. Wurgler (2006). Investor sentiment and the cross-section of stock returns.
The journal of Finance 61 (4), 1645–1680.
Bakshi, G. and N. Kapadia (2003). Delta-hedged gains and the negative market volatility
risk premium. The Review of Financial Studies 16 (2), 527–566.
Bali, T. G. and S. Murray (2013). Does risk-neutral skewness predict the cross-section of
equity option portfolio returns? Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 48 (4),
1145–1171.
Blume, M. E. and F. Husic (1973). Price, beta, and exchange listing. The Journal of
Finance 28 (2), 283–299.
Boyer, B. H. and K. Vorkink (2014). Stock options as lotteries.The Journal of Finance 69 (4),
1485–1527.
Bradshaw, M. T., S. A. Richardson, and R. G. Sloan (2006). The relation between corpo-
rate financing activities, analysts’ forecasts and stock returns. Journal of Accounting and
Economics 42 (1), 53–85.
Cao, J. and B. Han (2013). Cross section of option returns and idiosyncratic stock volatility.
Journal of Financial Economics 108 (1), 231–249.
Carr, P. and L. Wu (2004). Variance risk premia. Forthcoming The Review of Financial
Studies.
Carr, P. and L. Wu (2008). Variance risk premiums. The Review of Financial Studies 22 (3),
1311–1341.
Chen, A. Y. and M. Velikov (2023). Zeroing in on the expected returns of anomalies. Journal
of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 58 (3), 968–1004.
25

========== PAGE 27 ==========

Christoffersen, P., R. Goyenko, K. Jacobs, and M. Karoui (2018). Illiquidity premia in the
equity options market. The Review of Financial Studies 31 (3), 811–851.
Coval, J. D. and T. Shumway (2001). Expected option returns.The Journal of Finance 56 (3),
983–1009.
Daniel, K. and S. Titman (2006). Market reactions to tangible and intangible information.
The Journal of Finance 61 (4), 1605–1643.
DeMiguel, V., A. Martin-Utrera, F. J. Nogales, and R. Uppal (2020). A transaction-cost
perspective on the multitude of firm characteristics.The Review of Financial Studies 33 (5),
2180–2222.
Detzel, A., R. Novy-Marx, and M. Velikov (2023). Model comparison with transaction costs.
The Journal of Finance .
Dew-Becker, I., S. Giglio, A. Le, and M. Rodriguez (2017). The price of variance risk.Journal
of Financial Economics 123 (2), 225–250.
Dichev, I. D. (1998). Is the risk of bankruptcy a systematic risk? The Journal of Fi-
nance 53 (3), 1131–1147.
Diether, K. B., C. J. Malloy, and A. Scherbina (2002). Differences of opinion and the cross
section of stock returns. The Journal of Finance 57 (5), 2113–2141.
Driessen, J. and P. Maenhout (2007). An empirical portfolio perspective on option pricing
anomalies. Review of Finance 11 (4), 561–603.
Driessen, J., P. J. Maenhout, and G. Vilkov (2009). The price of correlation risk: Evidence
from equity options. The Journal of Finance 64 (3), 1377–1406.
Duarte, J., C. S. Jones, H. Mo, and M. Khorram (2023). Too good to be true: Look-ahead
bias in empirical option research. Available at SSRN .
Elton, E. J., M. J. Gruber, and C. R. Blake (1996). Survivor bias and mutual fund perfor-
mance. The review of financial studies 9 (4), 1097–1120.
Evans, R. B. (2010). Mutual fund incubation. The Journal of Finance 65 (4), 1581–1611.
Fama, E. and K. French (2015). A five-factor asset pricing model.
Fama, E. F. and K. R. French (1992). The cross-section of expected stock returns. the
Journal of Finance 47 (2), 427–465.
26

========== PAGE 28 ==========

Fama, E. F. and K. R. French (1993). Common risk factors in the returns on stocks and
bonds. Journal of Financial Economics 33 (1), 3–56.
Fama, E. F. and K. R. French (2006). Profitability, investment and average returns. Journal
of Financial Economics 82 (3), 491–518.
Fama, E. F. and K. R. French (2008). Dissecting anomalies. The Journal of Finance 63 (4),
1653–1678.
Fama, E. F. and J. D. MacBeth (1973). Risk, return, and equilibrium: Empirical tests.
Journal of political economy 81 (3), 607–636.
Fu, F. (2014). Dissecting the asset growth anomaly. Working Paper .
Goyal, A. and A. Saretto (2009). Cross-section of option returns and volatility. Journal of
Financial Economics 94 (2), 310–326.
Goyal, A. and A. Saretto (2022). Are equity option returns abnormal? ipca says no. IPCA
Says No (August 19, 2022) .
Goyal, A. and A. Saretto (2024). Can equity option returns be explained by a factor model?
ipca says yes. Available at SSRN 4194384 .
Haugen, R. A. and N. L. Baker (1996). Commonality in the determinants of expected stock
returns. Journal of Financial Economics 41 (3), 401–439.
Heston, S. L., C. S. Jones, M. Khorram, S. Li, and H. Mo (2023). Option momentum. The
Journal of Finance 78 (6), 3141–3192.
Horenstein, A. R., A. Vasquez, and X. Xiao (2022). Common factors in equity option returns.
Available at SSRN 3290363 .
Hou, K., C. Xue, and L. Zhang (2020). Replicating anomalies. The Review of financial
studies 33 (5), 2019–2133.
Jegadeesh, N. and S. Titman (1993). Returns to buying winners and selling losers: Implica-
tions for stock market efficiency. The Journal of Finance 48 (1), 65–91.
Jones, C. M. (2002). A century of stock market liquidity and trading costs. Available at
SSRN 313681 .
McLean, R. D. and J. Pontiff (2016). Does academic research destroy stock return pre-
dictability? The Journal of Finance 71 (1), 5–32.
27

========== PAGE 29 ==========

Muravyev, D. and N. D. Pearson (2020). Options trading costs are lower than you think.
The Review of Financial Studies 33 (11), 4973–5014.
Muravyev, D., N. D. Pearson, and J. M. Pollet (2022). Anomalies and their short-sale costs.
Available at SSRN 4266059 .
Neumann, M. and G. Skiadopoulos (2013). Predictable dynamics in higher-order risk-neutral
moments: Evidence from the s&p 500 options. Journal of Financial and Quantitative
Analysis 48 (3), 947–977.
Novy-Marx, R. and M. Velikov (2016). A taxonomy of anomalies and their trading costs.
The Review of Financial Studies 29 (1), 104–147.
Palazzo, B. (2012). Cash holdings, risk, and expected returns. Journal of Financial Eco-
nomics 104 (1), 162–185.
Pontiff, J. and A. Woodgate (2008). Share issuance and cross-sectional returns. The Journal
of Finance 63 (2), 921–945.
Ruan, X. (2020). Volatility-of-volatility and the cross-section of option returns. Journal of
Financial Markets 48 , 100492.
Shumway, T. (1997). The delisting bias in crsp data. Journal of Finance , 327–340.
Soliman, M. T. (2008, 05). The Use of DuPont Analysis by Market Participants. The
Accounting Review 83 (3), 823–853.
Stambaugh, R. F., J. Yu, and Y. Yuan (2012). The short of it: Investor sentiment and
anomalies. Journal of financial economics 104 (2), 288–302.
Tian, M. and L. Wu (2023). Limits of arbitrage and primary risk-taking in derivative secu-
rities. The Review of Asset Pricing Studies 13 (3), 405–439.
Vasquez, A. (2017). Equity volatility term structures and the cross section of option returns.
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 52 (6), 2727–2754.
Zhan, X., B. Han, J. Cao, and Q. Tong (2022). Option return predictability. The Review of
Financial Studies 35 (3), 1394–1442.
28

========== PAGE 30 ==========

-VOL_deviation
CH
VOV
IVOL
-VTS
Option Price
ISSUE_5Y
-PM
Option MOM
ISSUE_1Y
Stock MOM
RN SKEW
TEF
-LN(PRICE)
-PROFIT
-BM
-ILLIQ
Stock REV
-Size
Option REV
DISP
CFV
-ZS
AMIHUD
2
1
0
1
2
3
Return (%)
Gross Net of Stock and Option Transaction Costs
Figure 1: Equal-weighted long-short portfolio returns before and after accounting
for transaction costs
This figure shows average returns on long-short portfolios of delta-hedged call option returns
sorted by various characteristics. Portfolios are formed at the end of each month and held for
one month. ‘Gross’ stands for long-short portfolio returns before accounting for transaction
costs, and ‘Net of Stock and Option Transaction Costs’ stands for long-short portfolio return
after accounting for transaction costs where the stock effective bid-ask spread is from the
TAQ database and option effective bid-ask spread equals to 20.3% of the quoted bid-ask
spread from OptionMetrics database. The error bars show two standard errors (using the
Newey-West correction with six lags). When the portfolio gross return first becomes negative
or insignificant, the portfolio performance with higher transaction costs is ignored since it
must be negative or insignificant. Variables are described in Section A.1. The time period is
between September 2003 and December 2021.
29

========== PAGE 31 ==========

2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022
0
20
40
60
80
100Percentage of TC
Option TC Stock TC
Figure 2: Decomposition of average long-short portfolio transaction costs in per-
cent.
This figure shows a decomposition of average transaction costs across all the long-short port-
folios in Figure 1. The transaction costs include stock transaction costs with an effective
bid-ask spread from the TAQ database and option transaction costs with an effective bid-ask
spread equal to 20.3% of the quoted bid-ask spread from the OptionMetrics database. The
time period is between September 2003 and December 2021.
30

========== PAGE 32 ==========

2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022
1
2
3
4
5
6
7TC (%)
Figure 3: Time series of long-short portfolio transaction costs
This figure contains a graph of the time series of the cross-sectional average of long-short
portfolio transaction costs of 17 significant anomalies from Table 2. The transaction costs
include stock transaction costs with an effective bid-ask spread from the TAQ database and
option transaction costs with an effective bid-ask spread equal to 20.3% of the quoted bid-ask
spread from the OptionMetrics database. The time period is between September 2003 and
December 2021.
31

========== PAGE 33 ==========

-VOL_deviation
Option MOM
CH
IVOL
ISSUE_5Y
Option Price
ISSUE_1Y
VOV
-PM
-BM
TEF
Stock MOM
-VTS
-PROFIT
-LN(PRICE)
CFV
DISP
RN SKEW
-ILLIQ
-Size
Stock REV
Option REV
-ZS
AMIHUD
3
2
1
0
1
2
Return (%)
Buy-and-hold (month-end, one month) Buy-and-hold (3rd-Friday, until maturity)
Figure 4: Equal-weighted long-short portfolio returns before and after applying
cost-mitigation
This figure shows average returns on long-short portfolios of delta-hedged call option returns
sorted by various characteristics with and without cost-mitigation. ‘Buy-and-hold (month-
end, one month)’ refers to the option returns formed at the end of the month and held for
one month. ‘Buy-and-hold (3rd Friday, until maturity)’ refers to the option returns formed
on the third Friday of each month and held until maturity. Returns for the two strategies are
scaled to be 30-day returns for comparability. Transaction costs are equal to stock trading
costs (effective bid-ask spread from TAQ) plus option trading costs where effective bid-ask
spread equals 20.3% of the quoted bid-ask spread from Optionmetrics. The error bars show
two standard errors (using the Newey-West correction with six lags). Variables are described
in Section A.1. The time period is between September 2003 and December 2021.
32

========== PAGE 34 ==========

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8Return or TC (%)
Gross TC Net
Figure 5: Average returns and transaction costs in decile portfolios
This graph shows statistics for decile portfolios averaged across all 24 portfolio sort variables.
First, we sort into decile portfolios for each statistic and then average the characteristics across
that decile for all 24 characteristics. The blue dots show gross returns for each decile. The
green triangles show the average transaction costs for each decile (defined as the difference
between gross and net returns). The red diamonds show net returns for each decile which are
defined as the difference between gross returns and transaction costs. Transaction costs are
equal to stock trading costs (effective bid-ask spread from TAQ) plus option trading costs
where effective bid-ask spread equals 20.3% of the quoted bid-ask spread from Optionmetrics.
The time period is between September 2003 and December 2021.
33

========== PAGE 35 ==========

Panel A: Daily delta-hedge (one month)
2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022
0
20
40
60
80
100Percentage of TC
Option TC Stock TC
Panel B: Daily delta-hedge (until maturity)
2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022
0
20
40
60
80
100Percentage of TC
Option TC Stock TC
Figure 6: Decomposition of average long-short portfolio transaction costs in per-
cent for the daily delta-hedged trading strategies
This figure shows a decomposition of transaction costs for long-short portfolios of daily delta-
hedged call returns. Panel A (Panel B) contains the decomposition for a strategy formed at
the end of each month, and delta hedged daily for one month (until maturity). The trans-
action costs are an average of the transaction costs across all 24 long-short portfolios. The
transaction costs include stock transaction costs with an effective bid-ask spread from the
TAQ database and option transaction costs with an effective bid-ask spread equal to 20.3%
of the quoted bid-ask spread from the OptionMetrics database. The time period is between
September 2003 and December 2021.
34

========== PAGE 36 ==========

Table 1: Pooled summary statistics of delta-neutral call writing strategies for
equity options.
The ‘Buy-and-hold’ returns in each panel refer to a delta-neutral call writing position, which
involves selling one contract of an equity call and taking a long position of delta shares of
the underlying stock. The position is held for one month (Panel A) or until option maturity
(Panels B and C). Panel A contains statistics for a strategy formed at the end of each
month and held until the end of the next month. Panel B contains statistics for the strategy
formed at the end of each month and held until maturity. Panel C contains statistics for the
strategy formed on the third Friday of each month and held until maturity (the third Friday
of the following month). Stock and option trading costs are calculated at the initiation and
conclusion of the strategy. “Entry” refers to a statistic on the formation date, and “Exit”
refers to the associated exit date of the strategy. Days to maturity are the number of calendar
days until the option expires. Vega is the Black-Scholes option vega scaled by the stock price.
The time period is between September 2003 to December 2021.
Panel A: Buy-and-hold until month-end (formed at the month-end)
mean sd p1 p10 p25 p50 p75 p90 p99
Buy & hold until month-end (%) 0.46 8.85 -31.56 -7.52 -1.55 1.83 4.32 7.30 16.59
Moneyness = S/K (%) 99.26 4.84 85.20 93.47 96.81 99.51 101.78 104.63 112.67
Days to maturity 49.60 2.08 44.00 46.00 49.00 50.00 51.00 52.00 53.00
Vega 0.14 0.01 0.09 0.13 0.14 0.14 0.15 0.15 0.15
Quoted option bid-ask spread of Entry (%) 23.90 26.54 1.83 5.41 8.70 15.05 28.04 51.85 142.86
Quoted option bid-ask spread of Exit (%) 57.07 66.39 2.00 5.94 11.20 25.26 66.67 200.00 200.00
Effective stock bid-ask spread of Entry(%) 0.13 0.12 0.02 0.04 0.05 0.09 0.16 0.25 0.61
Effective stock bid-ask spread of Exit(%) 0.13 0.12 0.02 0.04 0.05 0.09 0.16 0.25 0.62
Observations 255240
Panel B: Buy-and-hold until maturity (formed at the month-end)
mean sd p1 p10 p25 p50 p75 p90 p99
Buy & hold until maturity (%) 0.40 8.58 -28.75 -8.09 -2.35 1.43 4.62 8.02 17.54
Effective stock bid-ask spread at maturity(%) 0.20 0.30 0.02 0.04 0.07 0.12 0.22 0.41 1.40
Observations 255240
Panel C: Buy-and-hold until maturity (formed on the third Friday)
mean sd p1 p10 p25 p50 p75 p90 p99
Buy & hold until maturity (%) 0.75 10.89 -37.34 -9.27 -2.44 1.89 5.81 10.21 22.55
Moneyness = S/K (%) 99.75 4.56 87.10 94.40 97.36 99.84 102.09 105.00 112.93
Days to maturity 31.11 3.36 28.00 28.00 29.00 29.00 35.00 36.00 36.00
Vega 0.11 0.01 0.06 0.09 0.10 0.11 0.12 0.12 0.12
Quoted option bid-ask spread of Entry (%) 28.62 30.43 1.94 5.88 10.00 18.18 34.48 66.67 155.56
Effective stock bid-ask spread of Entry (%) 0.21 0.29 0.02 0.04 0.07 0.12 0.23 0.42 1.41
Effective stock bid-ask spread of Exit (%) 0.21 0.31 0.02 0.04 0.07 0.12 0.23 0.43 1.46
Observations 299755
35

========== PAGE 37 ==========

Table 2: Equal-weighted buy & hold option portfolio returns
This table contains buy & hold delta-hedged one-month call option portfolio returns and
transaction costs for long-short portfolios sorted on various characteristics. Portfolios are
formed at the end of each month and held for one month. Subscripts refer to portfolio
deciles. Superscripts ‘net’ and ’gross’ refer to returns before and net-of transaction costs,
respectively. The transaction costs include stock transaction costs with an effective bid-
ask spread from the TAQ database and option transaction costs with an effective bid-ask
spread equal to 20.3% times the quoted bid-ask spread from the OptionMetrics database.
TC stands for portfolio transaction costs and is defined as the difference between gross and
net returns. We report t-statistics in parentheses calculated using Newey-West standard
errors with six lags. Long-short portfolios with significant positive returns at a 5% level or
above are indicated in bold. Variables are described in Section A.1. The sample period is
from September 2003 to December 2021.
Panel A: Option Characteristics
E[rgross
1 ] E[rgross
10 ] E[rgross
10−1 ] TC E[rnet
10−1]
Option MOM −0.02 0 .91 0.93 1.38 −0.45
(−0.09) (4 .41) (4.51) (−2.65)
Option REV 0 .77 0 .83 0 .06 2 .09 −2.03
(3.18) (3 .77) (0 .34) ( −11.77)
-VOL deviation −0.28 2 .11 2.39 2.30 0 .09
(−1.51) (7 .56) (8.78) (0.49)
VOV 0 .13 1 .36 1.23 2.15 −0.92
(1.07) (4 .70) (5.24) (−4.33)
-VTS 0 .41 1 .50 1.09 2.52 −1.43
(2.27) (5 .74) (4.61) (−6.53)
Option Price −0.41 0 .62 1.03 1.77 −0.74
(−1.60) (4 .41) (5.57) (−4.69)
-ILLIQ 0 .06 0 .55 0.49 2.40 −1.91
(0.27) (3 .32) (3.04) (−7.35)
RN SKEW 0 .11 0 .68 0.57 2.16 −1.59
(0.82) (3 .02) (4.55) (−10.34)
Panel B: Stock Characteristics
E[rgross
1 ] E[rgross
10 ] E[rgross
10−1 ] TC E[rnet
10−1]
AMIHUD 0 .49 0 .41 −0.08 2 .17 −2.25
(3.83) (1 .63) ( −0.40) ( −9.36)
-LN(PRICE) 0 .37 0 .92 0.55 1.98 −1.43
(2.80) (3 .23) (2.57) (−5.97)
-Size 0 .54 0 .64 0 .11 2 .04 −1.93
(4.21) (2 .50) (0 .53) ( −7.98)
Continued on the next page
36

========== PAGE 38 ==========

Continued from the previous page
Before TC After TC
E[rgross
1 ] E[rgross
10 ] E[rgross
10−1 ] TC E[rnet
10−1]
CFV 0 .46 0 .47 0 .01 1 .53 −1.52
(3.93) (1 .79) (0 .03) ( −6.92)
DISP 0 .39 0 .40 0 .01 1 .54 −1.53
(2.81) (1 .88) (0 .06) ( −9.23)
IVOL 0 .18 1 .36 1.18 1.81 −0.63
(1.33) (5 .66) (6.26) (−3.43)
ISSUE 1Y 0 .17 0 .97 0.79 1.71 −0.92
(1.01) (4 .56) (6.47) (−7.02)
ISSUE 5Y 0 .05 1 .02 0.97 1.65 −0.68
(0.26) (3 .91) (5.00) (−4.28)
TEF 0 .36 0 .91 0.55 1.74 −1.19
(2.56) (4 .74) (3.69) (−8.79)
-BM 0 .17 0 .66 0.49 1.60 −1.11
(0.66) (4 .19) (3.26) (−6.40)
CH 0 .06 1 .55 1.49 2.09 −0.60
(0.30) (7 .22) (7.95) (−4.56)
-PM 0 .34 1 .28 0.94 1.97 −1.03
(1.84) (5 .77) (5.42) (−7.68)
-PROFIT 0 .53 1 .05 0.52 1.95 −1.43
(3.38) (4 .44) (3.53) (−9.63)
-ZS 0 .82 0 .76 −0.06 2 .03 −2.09
(4.98) (3 .22) ( −0.42) ( −9.69)
Stock MOM 0 .07 0 .76 0.69 2.09 −1.40
(0.30) (3 .53) (4.46) (−9.01)
Stock REV 0 .46 0 .72 0 .26 2 .21 −1.95
(1.95) (3 .81) (1 .73) ( −9.50)
37

========== PAGE 39 ==========

Table 3: Long-short decile portfolio returns before and after transaction costs
This table contains buy & hold delta-hedged one-month call option portfolio returns and
transaction costs for portfolios sorted on various characteristics. The superscript ‘net’ means
net of a specific type of transaction cost, which is indicated in the subscript. Subscripts ‘M,’
‘Stk,’ and ‘Opt’ refer to margin requirement, stock transaction costs, and option transaction
costs, respectively. TC represents transaction costs and is defined as the difference between
gross returns and returns net of the particular category of transaction costs indicated in the
subscript. The option effective bid-ask spread equals 20.3% times the quoted option bid-ask
spread. Variables are described in Section A.1. We report t-statistics in parentheses calcu-
lated using Newey-West standard errors with six lags. Long-short portfolios with significant
positive returns at a 5% level or above are indicated in bold. The time period is between
September 2003 and December 2021.
Panel A: Option Characteristics
E[rgross] T CM E[rnet
M ] T CStk E[rnet
Stk] T COpt E[rnet
Opt]
Option MOM 0.93 0.08 0.85 0.11 0.82 1.27 −0.34
(4.51) (4 .11) (3 .99) (−2.00)
Option REV 0 .06 0 .07 −0.01 0 .33 −0.27 1 .76 −1.70
(0.34) ( −0.06) ( −1.65) ( −10.04)
-VOL deviation 2.39 0.09 2.29 0.26 2.13 2.04 0 .34
(8.78) (8 .60) (8 .01) (1.93)
VOV 1.23 0.10 1.13 0.27 0.97 1.88 −0.65
(5.24) (4 .77) (4 .19) (−3.07)
-VTS 1.09 0.10 1.00 0.35 0.74 2.17 −1.08
(4.61) (4 .40) (3 .23) (−4.97)
Option Price 1.03 0.08 0.95 0.22 0.82 1.56 −0.52
(5.57) (5 .16) (4 .43) (−3.31)
-ILLIQ 0.49 0.07 0.42 0.25 0 .24 2 .15 −1.66
(3.04) (2 .56) (1.48) ( −6.47)
RN SKEW 0.57 0.08 0.49 0.29 0.28 1.87 −1.31
(4.55) (3 .72) (2 .31) (−8.56)
Panel B: Stock Characteristics
E[rgross] T CM E[rnet
M ] T CStk E[rnet
Stk] T COpt E[rnet
Opt]
AMIHUD −0.08 0 .07 −0.15 0 .28 −0.35 1 .90 −1.98
(−0.40) ( −0.78) ( −1.82) ( −8.34)
-LN(PRICE) 0.55 0.10 0.45 0.22 0 .33 1 .77 −1.22
(2.57) (2 .08) (1.57) ( −5.09)
-Size 0 .11 0 .10 0 .01 0 .24 −0.13 1 .80 −1.70
(0.53) (0 .03) ( −0.67) ( −7.09)
Continued on the next page
38

========== PAGE 40 ==========

Continued from the previous page
E[rgross] T CM E[rnet
M ] T CStk E[rnet
Stk] T COpt E[rnet
Opt]
CFV 0 .01 0 .08 −0.08 0 .13 −0.12 1 .40 −1.40
(0.03) ( −0.37) ( −0.57) ( −6.38)
DISP 0 .01 0 .04 −0.03 0 .16 −0.16 1 .37 −1.37
(0.06) ( −0.26) ( −1.19) ( −8.29)
IVOL 1.18 0.08 1.10 0.25 0.92 1.56 −0.38
(6.26) (5 .81) (5 .04) (−2.04)
ISSUE 1Y 0.79 0.06 0.73 0.14 0.66 1.57 −0.78
(6.47) (5 .84) (5 .42) (−6.06)
ISSUE 5Y 0.97 0.05 0.92 0.17 0.81 1.49 −0.51
(5.00) (4 .62) (4 .18) (−3.21)
TEF 0.55 0.05 0.50 0.14 0.41 1.60 −1.05
(3.69) (3 .32) (2 .80) (−7.86)
-BM 0.49 0.09 0.40 0.14 0.36 1.47 −0.97
(3.26) (2 .62) (2 .38) (−5.63)
CH 1.49 0.08 1.41 0.16 1.32 1.93 −0.45
(7.95) (7 .19) (7 .25) (−3.35)
-PM 0.94 0.07 0.87 0.15 0.79 1.82 −0.88
(5.42) (4 .89) (4 .62) (−6.56)
-PROFIT 0.52 0.09 0.43 0.15 0.37 1.79 −1.28
(3.53) (2 .98) (2 .52) (−8.63)
-ZS −0.06 0 .07 −0.13 0 .15 −0.21 1 .89 −1.94
(−0.42) ( −0.93) ( −1.56) ( −9.13)
Stock MOM 0.69 0.09 0.60 0.21 0.48 1.89 −1.20
(4.46) (3 .90) (3 .14) (−7.75)
Stock REV 0 .26 0 .11 0 .16 0 .35 −0.09 1 .86 −1.60
(1.73) (1 .00) ( −0.60) ( −8.03)
39

========== PAGE 41 ==========

Table 4: Fama-MacBeth regressions: Transaction costs for individual delta-
hedged call option writing
This table contains cross-sectional regressions of transaction costs on various predictor vari-
ables. The dependent variable (in percent) is stock transaction costs (effective bid-ask spreads
come from the TAQ database) plus option transaction costs (effective bid-ask spreads equal
to 20.3% times quoted bid-ask spreads) scaled by the formation costs accounting for posi-
tion entry costs. All independent variables are cross-sectionally winsorized at the 0.5% and
99.5% percentile and standardized to have mean zero and unit standard deviation. We re-
port t-statistics calculated using Newey-West standard errors with six lags in parentheses.
Variables are described in Section A.1. The time period is between September 2003 and
December 2021. *, **, *** stand for p < 0.1, p < 0.05, p < 0.01 respectively.
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
Lagged TC (%) 0 .59∗∗∗ 0.36∗∗∗
(37.48) (30 .30)
-Size 0 .48∗∗∗ 0.23∗∗∗
(15.85) (12 .38)
IVOL 0 .27∗∗∗ −0.04∗∗∗
(13.22) ( −4.88)
-LN(PRICE) 0 .41∗∗∗ 0.07∗∗∗
(17.55) (8 .09)
-VOV 0 .38∗∗∗ 0.15∗∗∗
(10.45) (7 .61)
Constant 0 .36∗∗∗ 0.85∗∗∗ 0.85∗∗∗ 0.85∗∗∗ 0.85∗∗∗ 0.55∗∗∗
(11.49) (15 .19) (15 .17) (15 .18) (15 .20) (13 .79)
Adjusted R2 0.348 0 .293 0 .100 0 .227 0 .164 0 .467
40

========== PAGE 42 ==========

Table 5: Time-series regression of transaction costs on predictor variables
Time-series regression of the cross-sectional average of long-short portfolio return transaction
costs on lagged state variables. The dependent variable is an equal-weighted average of the
transaction costs for all the long-short portfolio returns in Table 2. The transaction costs
include stock transaction costs with an effective bid-ask spread from the TAQ database and
option transaction costs with an effective bid-ask spread equal to 20.3% times the quoted
bid-ask spread from the OptionMetrics database. There are 219 observations from September
2003 to December 2021. *, **, *** stand for p < 0.1, p < 0.05, p < 0.01 respectively.
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Lagged Cross-sectional Average Anomaly TC (%) 0.83∗∗∗ 0.84∗∗∗
(10.62) (13 .28)
VIX / 10 0 .43∗∗∗ 0.14∗∗
(3.61) (2 .53)
VIX Log Difference 0 .69∗ 1.27∗∗∗
(1.80) (7 .06)
TED Spread (%) −0.10 −0.14∗
(−0.54) ( −1.78)
NBER Recession Indicator 0 .34 −0.05
(1.06) ( −0.34)
Sentiment 0.52∗∗∗ 0.06
(4.95) (0 .89)
Constant 0 .34∗∗ 1.12∗∗∗ 1.95∗∗∗ 1.99∗∗∗ 1.92∗∗∗ 2.01∗∗∗ 0.13
(2.55) (5 .42) (31 .84) (21 .59) (31 .75) (30 .81) (0 .88)
AdjustedR2 0.678 0 .152 0 .023 −0.003 0 .007 0 .057 0 .787
41

========== PAGE 43 ==========

Table 6: Cost mitigation performance on long-short portfolio returns with trans-
action costs
This table contains buy-and-hold option returns for long-short decile portfolios using various
cost-mitigation strategies. The superscripts ‘mon,’ ‘mat,’ and ‘mat2’ refer to the buy-and-
hold one-month return formed at the end of each month, the buy-and-hold to maturity return
formed at the end of each month, and the buy-and-hold to-maturity return formed on the
third Friday of each month, respectively. The subscripts ‘all’ and ‘lc’ refer to the full sample
of firms and the subsample with firms in an option bid-ask spread decile below the 5th decile
in each cross-section. Transaction costs equal stock trading costs (effective bid-ask spread
from TAQ) plus option trading costs where effective bid-ask spread equals 20.3% times the
quoted bid-ask spread. All returns are scaled to be 30-day returns for comparability. We
report t-statistics in parentheses calculated using Newey-West standard errors with six lags.
Long-short portfolios with significant positive returns at a 5% level or above are indicated
in bold. Variables are described in Section A.1. The time period is between September 2003
and December 2021.
Panel A: Option Characteristics
Single Strategy Combined Strategy
E[rmon
all ] E[rmon
lc ] E[rmat
all ] E[rmat2
all ] E[rmat
lc ] E[rmat2
lc ]
Option MOM −0.46 −0.41 0 .21 0 .36 −0.24 0 .32
(−2.72) ( −1.98) (0 .94) (1 .75) ( −1.11) (1 .72)
Option REV −2.01 −1.17 −0.97 −1.22 −0.56 −0.73
(−11.78) ( −7.39) ( −7.99) ( −6.26) ( −4.26) ( −2.76)
-VOL deviation 0 .09 0 .11 1.16 1 .51 0 .55 0 .71
(0.52) (0 .48) (5.38) (8 .00) (2 .38) (3 .05)
VOV −0.91 0 .26 0.51 0.41 0.45 0 .56
(−4.33) (1 .18) (2.77) (1.72) (2.48) (2 .23)
-VTS −1.39 −0.31 0 .10 −0.41 0 .31 0.42
(−6.48) ( −1.37) (0 .52) ( −2.45) (1 .63) (2.02)
Option Price −0.73 −0.52 −0.67 −1.39 −0.33 −0.66
(−4.66) ( −3.13) ( −5.22) ( −6.18) ( −2.10) ( −3.08)
-ILLIQ −1.89 −0.59 −1.66 −2.70 −0.36 −0.52
(−7.33) ( −5.58) ( −8.83) ( −11.04) ( −3.18) ( −4.65)
RN SKEW −1.57 −0.38 −0.30 −0.39 0 .06 −0.09
(−10.25) ( −2.21) ( −3.64) ( −2.98) (0 .46) ( −0.62)
Panel B: Stock Characteristics
Single Strategy Combined Strategy
E[rmon
all ] E[rmon
lc ] E[rmat
all ] E[rmat2
all ] E[rmat
lc ] E[rmat2
lc ]
AMIHUD −2.23 −0.67 −0.20 0 .07 −0.05 0 .16
(−9.27) ( −3.59) ( −1.58) (0 .29) ( −0.40) (0 .69)
-LN(PRICE) −1.42 −0.52 −0.10 0 .17 −0.13 0 .20
(−5.96) ( −2.76) ( −0.55) (0 .63) ( −0.70) (0 .82)
Continued on the next page
42

========== PAGE 44 ==========

Continued from the previous page
Single Strategy Combined Strategy
E[rmon
all ] E[rmon
lc ] E[rmat
all ] E[rmat2
all ] E[rmat
lc ] E[rmat2
lc ]
-Size −1.91 −0.63 −0.30 −0.08 −0.27 0 .07
(−7.90) ( −3.40) ( −1.97) ( −0.37) ( −1.66) (0 .27)
CFV −1.50 −0.69 −0.71 −0.67 −0.37 −0.50
(−6.96) ( −3.02) ( −4.21) ( −2.86) ( −2.03) ( −1.62)
DISP −1.51 −0.58 −0.71 −0.78 −0.31 −0.41
(−9.31) ( −3.58) ( −4.62) ( −4.18) ( −1.93) ( −1.90)
IVOL −0.63 0 .24 0 .16 −0.00 0.35 0.35
(−3.44) (1 .40) (1 .01) ( −0.01) (2.08) (1.56)
ISSUE 1Y −0.91 −0.27 −0.03 −0.12 0 .06 0 .08
(−7.01) ( −1.82) ( −0.23) ( −0.72) (0 .43) (0 .49)
ISSUE 5Y −0.68 −0.17 0 .11 −0.20 −0.11 −0.00
(−4.39) ( −0.91) (0 .76) ( −1.34) ( −0.60) ( −0.01)
TEF −1.18 −0.33 −0.22 −0.42 −0.08 −0.25
(−8.77) ( −2.26) ( −1.31) ( −2.03) ( −0.57) ( −1.30)
-BM −1.10 −0.46 −0.27 −0.64 −0.08 −0.38
(−6.42) ( −2.89) ( −1.61) ( −3.77) ( −0.46) ( −1.80)
CH −0.61 −0.12 0.64 0 .44 0.18 0.39
(−4.56) ( −0.71) (3.58) (2 .49) (0.87) (2.27)
-PM −1.01 −0.53 0 .08 −0.16 −0.19 −0.17
(−7.62) ( −3.64) (0 .56) ( −0.74) ( −1.16) ( −0.70)
-PROFIT −1.41 −0.36 −0.14 −0.37 0 .04 −0.18
(−9.56) ( −2.84) ( −0.98) ( −1.80) (0 .25) ( −0.87)
-ZS −2.07 −0.70 −1.02 −1.17 −0.38 −0.47
(−9.85) ( −3.90) ( −7.24) ( −7.57) ( −2.03) ( −2.07)
Stock MOM −1.39 −0.39 −0.40 −1.07 −0.17 −0.51
(−8.97) ( −2.42) ( −2.03) ( −4.58) ( −0.79) ( −2.37)
Stock REV −1.94 −0.83 −0.83 −1.14 −0.22 −0.38
(−9.59) ( −4.71) ( −4.25) ( −6.03) ( −1.14) ( −1.83)
43

========== PAGE 45 ==========

Table 7: Equal-weighted buy-and-hold until maturity returns for decile portfolios
This table contains buy-and-hold option portfolio returns and transaction costs for portfolios
sorted on various characteristics. Option returns are for delta-neutral call-writing strategies
formed at the end of each month and held until maturity. Subscripts refer to portfolio deciles.
Superscripts ‘net’ and ’gross’ refer to returns before and net-of transaction costs, respectively.
The transaction costs include stock transaction costs with the effective bid-ask spread from
the TAQ database and option transaction costs with an effective bid-ask spread equal to
20.3% times the quoted bid-ask spread from the OptionMetrics database. TC represents
transaction costs and is defined as the difference between gross returns and returns net of the
transaction costs. All returns are scaled to be 30-day returns for comparability. Variables are
described in Section A.1. We report t-statistics in parentheses calculated using Newey-West
standard errors with six lags. The time period is between September 2003 and December
2021.
Panel A: Option Characteristics
E[rgross
1 ] T C1 E[rnet
1 ] E[rgross
10 ] T C10 E[rnet
10 ] E[rnet
10−1]
Option MOM −0.17 0 .27 −0.44 0 .65 0 .33 0 .32 0 .21
(−0.73) ( −1.88) (2 .85) (1 .45) (0 .94)
Option REV 0 .72 0 .36 0 .36 0 .58 0 .48 0 .10 −0.97
(2.98) (1 .47) (2 .49) (0 .43) ( −7.99)
-VOL deviation −0.19 0 .34 −0.53 1 .91 0 .60 1 .31 1 .16
(−0.92) ( −2.50) (6 .96) (5 .48) (5 .38)
VOV 0 .11 0 .16 −0.05 1 .47 0 .69 0 .79 0 .51
(0.76) ( −0.36) (5 .40) (3 .21) (2 .77)
-VTS 0 .40 0 .40 −0.00 1 .50 0 .61 0 .89 0 .10
(1.86) ( −0.01) (5 .68) (3 .66) (0 .52)
Option Price 0 .25 0 .53 −0.29 0 .30 0 .19 0 .10 −0.67
(1.04) ( −1.17) (1 .63) (0 .57) ( −5.22)
-ILLIQ 1 .00 0 .91 0 .09 0 .28 0 .09 0 .19 −1.66
(4.09) (0 .39) (1 .50) (1 .00) ( −8.83)
RN SKEW 0 .24 0 .28 −0.04 0 .76 0 .54 0 .22 −0.30
(1.40) ( −0.25) (3 .62) (1 .05) ( −3.64)
Panel B: Stock Characteristics
E[rgross
1 ] T C1 E[rnet
1 ] E[rgross
10 ] T C10 E[rnet
10 ] E[rnet
10−1]
AMIHUD 0 .29 0 .09 0 .20 1 .01 0 .83 0 .18 −0.20
(1.95) (1 .33) (4 .48) (0 .81) ( −1.58)
-LN(PRICE) 0 .19 0 .13 0 .06 0 .94 0 .71 0 .23 −0.10
(1.21) (0 .36) (3 .55) (0 .86) ( −0.55)
-Size 0 .33 0 .09 0 .24 0 .91 0 .79 0 .13 −0.30
(2.30) (1 .66) (3 .96) (0 .54) ( −1.97)
Continued on the next page
44

========== PAGE 46 ==========

Continued from the previous page
E[rgross
1 ] T C1 E[rnet
1 ] E[rgross
10 ] T C10 E[rnet
10 ] E[rnet
10−1]
CFV 0 .46 0 .19 0 .27 0 .39 0 .45 −0.06 −0.71
(3.50) (2 .02) (1 .56) ( −0.25) ( −4.21)
DISP 0 .46 0 .21 0 .25 0 .37 0 .42 −0.05 −0.71
(2.90) (1 .54) (1 .55) ( −0.19) ( −4.62)
IVOL 0 .21 0 .17 0 .05 1 .10 0 .56 0 .54 0 .16
(1.57) (0 .33) (4 .68) (2 .34) (1 .01)
ISSUE 1Y 0 .19 0 .23 −0.04 0 .88 0 .50 0 .38 −0.03
(1.06) ( −0.22) (3 .67) (1 .65) ( −0.23)
ISSUE 5Y 0 .13 0 .22 −0.09 0 .92 0 .47 0 .46 0 .11
(0.71) ( −0.47) (3 .70) (1 .91) (0 .76)
TEF 0 .39 0 .25 0 .13 0 .91 0 .50 0 .42 −0.22
(2.51) (0 .85) (3 .64) (1 .74) ( −1.31)
-BM 0 .13 0 .35 −0.23 0 .54 0 .33 0 .21 −0.27
(0.54) ( −0.94) (2 .87) (1 .10) ( −1.61)
CH 0 .07 0 .28 −0.21 1 .60 0 .62 0 .99 0 .64
(0.33) ( −0.92) (7 .09) (4 .93) (3 .58)
-PM 0 .30 0 .25 0 .05 1 .23 0 .60 0 .63 0 .08
(1.42) (0 .22) (4 .99) (2 .69) (0 .56)
-PROFIT 0 .40 0 .30 0 .10 1 .10 0 .56 0 .54 −0.14
(2.42) (0 .61) (4 .09) (2 .12) ( −0.98)
-ZS 0 .87 0 .43 0 .44 0 .73 0 .47 0 .26 −1.02
(5.00) (2 .62) (2 .97) (1 .10) ( −7.24)
Stock MOM 0 .08 0 .48 −0.40 0 .55 0 .41 0 .14 −0.40
(0.31) ( −1.61) (2 .22) (0 .56) ( −2.03)
Stock REV 0 .48 0 .46 0 .02 0 .49 0 .42 0 .08 −0.83
(1.73) (0 .07) (2 .26) (0 .35) ( −4.25)
45

========== PAGE 47 ==========

Table 8: Pooled summary of returns to delta-neutral call writing strategy for
S&P500 index options
This table contains summary statistics of delta-neutral call writing strategies on the SPX
contract. The strategy involves selling one contract of an equity index call option and a long
position of delta shares of the underlying index. The position is formed at the end of the
month and held until maturity. The time period is between September 2003 to December
2021.
mean sd p1 p10 p25 p50 p75 p90 p99
Buy & hold until maturity (TC, %) 0.08 2.43 -13.65 -2.11 -0.86 0.39 1.50 2.21 3.75
Moneyness = S/K (%) 99.99 0.13 99.58 99.86 99.93 100.01 100.07 100.13 100.30
Days to maturity 49.53 2.10 44.00 46.00 49.00 50.00 51.00 52.00 53.00
Vega 0.14 0.00 0.14 0.14 0.14 0.14 0.15 0.15 0.15
Quoted option bid-ask spread of Entry (%) 4.16 3.16 0.66 1.02 1.78 3.60 5.50 8.40 14.21
Effective index ETF bid-ask spread of Entry (%) 0.06 0.09 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.03 0.07 0.14 0.33
Effective index ETF bid-ask spread of Exit (%) 0.09 0.11 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.06 0.12 0.23 0.46
Observations 218
46

========== PAGE 48 ==========

Table 9: Market volatility neutral strategy characteristics
This table contains average returns, alphas, and beta of various equal-weighted portfolios
after accounting for transaction costs for the buy-and-hold until maturity strategy. 1, 10, 10-
1, and 10-0.9M refer to decile one, decile ten, the long-short portfolio of deciles ten and one,
and the portfolio long decile ten and short 0.9 units of portfolio M. ‘M’ denotes the market
factor, which is constructed as the delta-hedged buy-and-hold to maturity S&P 500 call
option return after accounting for transaction costs. ‘Beta’ and ‘Alpha’ denote the regression
coefficient and intercept from a univariate regression of option portfolio returns on the option
market factor returns. The transaction costs include stock trading costs and option trading
costs with effective bid-ask spread equal to dollar-weighted effective stock bid-ask spread
from TAQ and 20.3% times quoted option bid-ask spread, respectively. The t-statistics are
adjusted using the Newey-West method with six lags. Portfolios with significant positive
returns (alphas) at a 5% level or above are indicated in bold. Variables are described in
Section A.1. The time period is between September 2003 and December 2021.
Panel A: Option Characteristics
Beta Ret (%) Alpha (%)
1 10 10-1 10-0.9M 10 10-0.9M 10 10-0.9M
Option MOM 0 .95 0 .83 −0.11 −0.06 0 .32 0 .14 0 .26 0 .15
(11.07) (9 .89) ( −1.63) ( −0.76) (1 .45) (0 .75) (1 .35) (0 .78)
Option REV 1 .03 0 .98 −0.05 0 .08 0 .10 −0.06 0 .04 −0.07
(7.00) (11 .25) ( −0.69) (0 .88) (0 .43) ( −0.41) (0 .27) ( −0.45)
-VOL deviation 0 .92 0 .79 −0.12 −0.11 1.31 1 .13 1 .25 1 .14
(9.83) (8 .02) ( −2.33) ( −1.07) (5.48) (5 .93) (6 .41) (5 .89)
VOV 0 .69 0 .92 0 .22 0 .02 0.79 0 .62 0 .74 0 .62
(8.18) (7 .40) (1 .65) (0 .18) (3.21) (3 .35) (3 .85) (3 .30)
-VTS 0 .87 0 .87 0 .00 −0.03 0.89 0 .71 0 .83 0 .72
(12.15) (6 .93) (0 .01) ( −0.20) (3.66) (3 .92) (4 .42) (3 .87)
Option Price 0 .99 0 .79 −0.21 −0.11 0 .10 −0.06 0 .06 −0.06
(10.16) (6 .18) ( −2.47) ( −0.86) (0 .57) ( −0.55) (0 .47) ( −0.44)
-ILLIQ 0 .88 0 .87 −0.01 −0.02 0 .19 0 .01 0 .13 0 .01
(9.40) (12 .08) ( −0.33) ( −0.34) (1 .00) (0 .10) (1 .12) (0 .11)
RN SKEW 0 .78 0 .96 0 .19 0 .06 0 .22 0 .03 0 .14 0 .02
(8.53) (10 .06) (2 .64) (0 .62) (1 .05) (0 .23) (1 .09) (0 .19)
Panel B: Stock Characteristics
Beta Ret (%) Alpha (%)
1 10 10-1 10-0.9M 10 10-0.9M 10 10-0.9M
AMIHUD 0 .74 0 .90 0 .16 0 .00 0 .18 0 .00 0 .12 0 .00
(9.36) (9 .31) (3 .36) (0 .01) (0 .81) (0 .02) (0 .80) (0 .02)
-LN(PRICE) 0 .72 1 .03 0 .31 0 .13 0 .23 0 .07 0 .17 0 .06
(9.61) (10 .15) (4 .47) (1 .27) (0 .86) (0 .35) (0 .93) (0 .30)
-Size 0 .77 0 .92 0 .15 0 .02 0 .13 −0.04 0 .07 −0.05
(10.86) (9 .84) (2 .74) (0 .21) (0 .54) ( −0.28) (0 .41) ( −0.28)
CFV 0 .64 1 .14 0 .49 0 .24 −0.06 −0.26 −0.16 −0.28
(12.22) (10 .48) (5 .71) (2 .20) ( −0.25) ( −1.60) ( −1.10) ( −1.84)
Continued on the next page
47

========== PAGE 49 ==========

Continued from the previous page
Beta Ret (%) Alpha (%)
1 10 10-1 10-0.9M 10 10-0.9M 10 10-0.9M
DISP 0 .82 0 .98 0 .15 0 .08 −0.05 −0.23 −0.12 −0.23
(8.72) (9 .95) (1 .69) (0 .79) ( −0.19) ( −1.35) ( −0.72) ( −1.39)
IVOL 0 .71 0 .98 0 .26 0 .08 0.54 0 .38 0 .49 0 .38
(10.04) (7 .79) (2 .14) (0 .63) (2.34) (2 .35) (2 .99) (2 .31)
ISSUE 1Y 0 .88 0 .95 0 .07 0 .05 0 .38 0 .22 0.33 0.22
(8.70) (8 .63) (0 .78) (0 .46) (1 .65) (1 .36) (2.02) (1.32)
ISSUE 5Y 0 .89 0 .93 0 .04 0 .03 0 .46 0 .29 0.40 0.28
(9.68) (8 .18) (0 .39) (0 .25) (1 .91) (1 .65) (2.26) (1.61)
TEF 0 .82 0 .88 0 .06 −0.02 0 .42 0 .26 0.37 0.26
(10.43) (6 .32) (0 .58) ( −0.13) (1 .74) (1 .45) (2.03) (1.41)
-BM 1 .00 0 .81 −0.20 −0.09 0 .21 0 .04 0 .16 0 .05
(10.35) (8 .27) ( −2.80) ( −0.91) (1 .10) (0 .33) (1 .24) (0 .37)
CH 0 .90 0 .70 −0.21 −0.20 0.99 0 .83 0 .96 0 .85
(8.30) (9 .51) ( −3.02) ( −2.68) (4.93) (4 .93) (5 .61) (5 .01)
-PM 0 .82 0 .88 0 .06 −0.01 0.63 0 .46 0 .58 0 .46
(8.70) (7 .23) (0 .45) ( −0.10) (2.69) (2 .57) (3 .12) (2 .52)
-PROFIT 0 .86 1 .01 0 .14 0 .11 0.54 0 .37 0 .47 0 .36
(9.96) (8 .69) (2 .75) (0 .93) (2.12) (1 .99) (2 .57) (1 .96)
-ZS 0 .74 0 .92 0 .17 0 .02 0 .26 0 .07 0 .18 0 .07
(9.34) (8 .77) (3 .94) (0 .21) (1 .10) (0 .45) (1 .13) (0 .43)
Stock MOM 1 .01 0 .91 −0.11 0 .01 0 .14 −0.05 0 .06 −0.05
(11.06) (6 .04) ( −0.91) (0 .09) (0 .56) ( −0.26) (0 .34) ( −0.26)
Stock REV 1 .05 0 .90 −0.16 0 .00 0 .08 −0.09 0 .03 −0.09
(6.82) (8 .08) ( −0.90) (0 .04) (0 .35) ( −0.57) (0 .18) ( −0.55)
48

========== PAGE 50 ==========

Table 10: The impact of hedging frequency
This table contains a performance evaluation of equal-weighted decile portfolios of option
returns with different delta-hedge frequencies. Portfolios are formed at the end of each
month and held until maturity. ‘Once’ represents our buy-and-hold to maturity strategy,
hedged at the portfolio formation date. ‘Biweekly’ represents the strategy which is re-hedged
every two weeks, a ‘Weekly’ strategy is re-hedged every week, and the ‘Daily’ strategy is
re-hedged every trading day. The number without parentheses shows the average return
after transaction costs and t-statistics, annual Sharpe ratios, and turnover of stocks for the
return after transaction costs time series are shown in the parentheses, bracket parentheses,
and curly braces, respectively. All statistics for portfolios with significant positive returns
at a 5% level or above are indicated in bold. t-statistics are calculated using Newey-West
standard errors with six lags. For brevity, we only show returns on a subset of our full
set of characteristics. Variables are described in Section A.1. The time period is between
September 2003 and December 2021.
Panel A: Option Characteristics
Before TC After TC
Once Biweekly Weekly Daily Once Biweekly Weekly Daily
Option MOM 0.81 0 .93 0 .98 0 .77 0.21 0 .32 0.33 −0.03
(3.32) (5 .06) (5 .51) (5 .23) (0.93) (1 .94) (2.09) (−0.23)
[0.91] [1 .55] [1 .80] [1 .72] [0.24] [0 .55] [0.63] [−0.07]
{2.03} { 2.41} { 2.76} { 4.44} {2.03} { 2.41} {2.76} {4.44}
-VOL deviation 2.06 1 .93 1 .90 1 .97 1 .16 1 .02 0 .94 0 .83
(7.93) (9 .06) (9 .99) (9 .09) (5 .38) (6 .01) (6 .51) (5 .06)
[2.98] [3 .83] [4 .15] [4 .27] [1 .80] [2 .26] [2 .34] [2 .13]
{1.98} { 2.36} { 2.71} { 4.41} { 1.98} { 2.36} { 2.71} { 4.41}
VOV 1.33 1 .36 1 .27 1 .48 0 .52 0 .54 0 .40 0 .44
(6.09) (7 .45) (6 .37) (7 .36) (2 .78) (3 .58) (2 .34) (2 .64)
[2.01] [2 .94] [2 .80] [3 .36] [0 .82] [1 .28] [0 .97] [1 .12]
{1.98} { 2.36} { 2.73} { 4.48} { 1.98} { 2.36} { 2.73} { 4.48}
Panel B: Stock Characteristics
Before TC After TC
Once Biweekly Weekly Daily Once Biweekly Weekly Daily
-LN(PRICE) 0.72 0 .85 0 .89 1 .16 −0.10 0 .01 0 .01 0 .07
(4.10) (4 .79) (4 .66) (7 .16) (−0.54) (0 .06) (0 .03) (0 .45)
[1.05] [1 .77] [2 .02] [2 .99] [−0.14] [0 .02] [0 .01] [0 .18]
{1.98} { 2.36} { 2.72} { 4.45} {1.98} { 2.36} { 2.72} { 4.45}
-Size 0.55 0 .63 0 .69 0 .98 −0.30 −0.23 −0.23 −0.16
(3.72) (4 .06) (4 .23) (6 .17) (−1.97) ( −1.59) ( −1.48) ( −1.16)
[0.90] [1 .40] [1 .61] [2 .43] [−0.49] [ −0.53] [ −0.55] [ −0.42]
{1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.50} {1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.50}
CH 1.50 1 .27 1 .30 1 .34 0 .64 0 .39 0 .38 0 .23
(6.93) (7 .20) (7 .96) (8 .72) (3 .59) (2 .95) (3 .19) (2 .29)
[1.93] [2 .66] [3 .07] [3 .61] [0 .85] [0 .91] [1 .00] [0 .72]
{1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.47} { 1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.47}
49

========== PAGE 51 ==========

A Appendix
A.1 Description of variables
1. CFV: Cash flow variance, as in Haugen and Baker (1996), computed as the variance
of the monthly ratio of annual cash flow to market value of equity over the last 60
months (at least 36 nonmissing monthly observations). Annual cash flow is Net Income
(Compustat annual item NI) plus Depreciation and Amortization (item DP), all scaled
by monthly updated market value of equity. We assume annual accounting items known
publicly 4 months after the fiscal year end. To avoid stale information, we do not use
annual accounting information from the fiscal year end that is older than 15 months.
2. CH: Following Palazzo (2012), we measure cash-to-assets, as cash holdings (Compu-
stat quarterly item CHEQ) scaled by total assets (item ATQ). We assume quarterly
accounting items known publicly 4 months after the fiscal quarter end. To avoid stale
information, we do not use quarterly accounting information from the fiscal quarter
end that is older than 6 months.
3. DISP: Analyst earnings forecast dispersion, as in Diether et al. (2002). We measure
dispersion in analyst earnings forecasts as the ratio of the standard deviation of earnings
forecasts (IBES unadjusted file, item STDEV) to the absolute value of the consensus
mean forecast (unadjusted file, item MEANEST). We use the earnings forecasts for the
current fiscal year (fiscal period indicator = 1), and we require them to be denominated
in US dollars (currency code = USD). Stocks with a mean forecast of zero are assigned
to the highest dispersion group. Firms with fewer than two forecasts are excluded.
4. ISSUE1Y: One-year new issues, as in Pontiff and Woodgate (2008), measured as the
natural log of the ratio of the split-adjusted shares outstanding at one fiscal year end to
the split-adjusted shares outstanding at the fiscal year-end 12 months ago. The split-
adjusted shares outstanding are shares outstanding (Compustat annual item CSHO)
times the adjustment factor (item AJEX). We assume annual accounting items are
known publicly four months after the fiscal year-end. To avoid stale information, we
do not use annual accounting information from the fiscal year end that is older than
15 months.
5. ISSUE5Y: Five-year new issues, as in Daniel and Titman (2006), for each month t,
measured as the log growth rate in the market equity not attributable to stock return,
log(Met/Met-60)-r(t-60, t). r(t-60, t) is the cumulative log stock return over the past
50

========== PAGE 52 ==========

60 months, including month t, and Met is the market equity (from CRSP) on the last
trading day of month t.
6. PM: Profit margin, as in Soliman (2008), calculated as Earnings Before Interest and
Taxes (Compustat annual item EBIT) scaled by Revenue (item REVT). We assume
annual accounting items are known publicly four months after the fiscal year-end. To
avoid stale information, we do not use annual accounting information from the fiscal
year end that is older than 15 months.
7. ln(PRICE): The log of the stock price at the end of last month, as in Blume and Husic
(1973).
8. PROFIT: Profitability, as in Fama and French (2006), calculated as earnings divided
by book equity (the denominator is current, not lagged, book equity), in which earnings
is defined as Income Before Extraordinary Items (Compustat annual item IB). Book
equity is stockholders’ book equity, plus balance sheet deferred taxes and investment
tax credit (item TXDITC) if available, minus the book value of preferred stock. Stock-
holders’ equity is the value reported by Compustat (item SEQ), if it is available. If not,
we measure stockholders’ equity as the book value of common equity (item CEQ) plus
the par value of preferred stock (item PSTK), or the book value of assets (item AT)
minus total liabilities (item LT). Depending on availability, we use redemption (item
PSTKRV), liquidating (item PSTKL), or par value (item PSTK) for the book value of
preferred stock. We assume annual accounting items are known publicly four months
after the fiscal year end. To avoid stale information, we do not use annual accounting
information from the fiscal year end that is older than 15 months.
9. TEF: Total external financing, as in Bradshaw et al. (2006), for one fiscal year-end,
scaled by the average of total assets (Compustat annual item AT) at the same fiscal
year-end and the prior fiscal year-end. Total external financing is the sum of net
equity financing and net debt financing. Net equity financing is the proceeds from
the sale of common and preferred stocks (Compustat annual item SSTK), less cash
payments for the repurchases of common and preferred stocks (item PRSTKC), and
less cash payments for dividends (item DV). Net debt financing is the cash proceeds
from the issuance of long-term debt (item DLTIS) less cash payments for long-term
debt reductions (item DLTR) plus the net changes in current debt (item DLCCH,
zero if missing). We assume annual accounting items are known publicly four months
after the fiscal year end. To avoid stale information, we do not use annual accounting
information from the fiscal year end that is older than 15 months.
51

========== PAGE 53 ==========

10. ZS: Z-score. We follow Dichev (1998) to construct the Z-score (Dichev (1998)): Z =
1.2×WCTA + 1.4×RETA + 3.3×EBITTA + 0.6×METL + SALETA, in which WCTA
is working capital (Compustat annual item ACT minus item LCT) divided by total
assets (item AT), RETA is retained earnings (item RE) divided by total assets, EBITTA
is earnings before interest and taxes (item OIADP) divided by total assets, METL is
the market equity (from CRSP, at fiscal year end) divided by total liabilities (item LT),
and SALETA is sales (item SALE) divided by total assets. For firms with more than
1 share class, we merge the market equity for all share classes before computing Z.
11. VOL deviation: Volatility mispricing measure as in Goyal and Saretto (2009), calcu-
lated as the log difference between the realized volatility and Black-Scholes implied
volatility for at-the-money options at the end of the last month.
12. IVOL: Idiosyncratic volatility, as in Ang et al. (2006) and Cao and Han (2013), com-
puted as the standard deviation of the regression residual of individual stock returns
on the Fama and French (1993) three factors using daily data in the previous month.
13. AMIHUD: The Amihud (2002) stock illiquidity measure (calculated as the average of
the daily ratio of the absolute stock return to dollar volume over the previous month).
14. Size: the natural logarithm of the market value of the firm’s equity as in Fama and
French (1993).
15. BM: Book-to-market ratio, measured as the ratio of book equity to market equity as
in Fama and French (1993).
16. Stock REV: Stock return reversal, measured as lagged one-month return as in Jegadeesh
and Titman (1993).
17. Stock MOM: Stock return momentum, the cumulative return on the stock over the 11
months ending at the beginning of the previous month as in Jegadeesh and Titman
(1993).
18. VTS: The slope of the volatility term structure, measured as the difference between
long-term and short-term implied volatilities as in Vasquez (2017).
19. VOV: Volatility of volatility, measured as the standard deviation of implied volatility
in the past month as Ruan (2020).
20. Option Momentum: Option return momentum, calculated as the cumulative option
return on the stock over the 11 months ending at the beginning of the previous month
as in Heston et al. (2023).
52

========== PAGE 54 ==========

21. Option REV: Option return reversal, measured as lagged one-month option return as
in Heston et al. (2023).
22. Option Price: The option price.
23. ILLIQ: Option illiquidity as suggested in Christoffersen et al. (2018). This is measured
using the quoted option bid-ask spread.
24. RN SKEW: Risk neutral skewness as in (Bali and Murray, 2013). We use the 30-day
risk-neutral skewness. The construction follows Bakshi and Kapadia (2003). We thank
Grigory Vilkov for making his code available online at https://osf.io/z2486/
53

========== PAGE 55 ==========

A.2 Figures and Tables
2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30Stock TC (%)
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Option TC (%)
Stock TC Option TC
Figure A1: Time series of average transaction costs - sample universe
This figure contains a graph of the average transaction costs in the time series for our sample
universe. The average cost (in %) is calculated at the end of each month in our sample
(corresponding to portfolio formation dates). ‘Stock TC’ denotes the stock transaction cost
defined as the percentage dollar-weighted effective spread from the TAQ database. ‘Option
TC’ denotes the option transaction cost defined as 20.3% of the percentage quoted bid-ask
spread from the OptionMetrics database. The time period is between September 2003 and
December 2021.
54

========== PAGE 56 ==========

Table A1: The impact of filling missing values on portfolio returns
This table contains equal-weighted delta-hedged option portfolio returns sorted by various
characteristics using samples with and without filling of missing data. Portfolios are formed
at the end of each month and held for one month. ‘Option’ denotes the option sample
without filling of price data; ‘Option Fill’ denotes the option sample with filling of price
data; ‘Difference’ represents the difference in returns (after transaction costs) between the
‘Option’ and ‘Option Fill’ samples. The first three columns show the long-short portfolio
return without transaction costs, and the last three columns show the long-short portfolio
return after transaction costs. We report t-statistics in parentheses calculated using Newey-
West standard errors with six lags. Variables are described in Section A.1. The sample
period is from September 2003 to December 2021.
Panel A: Option Characteristics
Before TC After TC
Option Option Fill Difference Option Option Fill Difference
Option MOM 0 .94 0 .93 0 .01 −0.43 −0.45 0 .02
(4.33) (4 .51) (0 .39) ( −2.41) ( −2.65) (0 .54)
Option REV 0 .07 0 .06 0 .01 −2.02 −2.03 0 .01
(0.41) (0 .34) (0 .85) ( −11.94) ( −11.77) (0 .84)
-VOL deviation 2 .44 2 .39 0 .06 0 .15 0 .09 0 .06
(8.92) (8 .78) (2 .86) (0 .84) (0 .49) (2 .93)
VOV 1 .28 1 .23 0 .04 −0.87 −0.92 0 .04
(5.42) (5 .24) (2 .35) ( −4.13) ( −4.33) (2 .29)
-VTS 1 .14 1 .09 0 .05 −1.38 −1.43 0 .05
(4.83) (4 .61) (2 .35) ( −6.31) ( −6.53) (2 .25)
Option Price 1 .04 1 .03 0 .00 −0.73 −0.74 0 .01
(5.68) (5 .57) (0 .22) ( −4.72) ( −4.69) (0 .46)
-ILLIQ 0 .49 0 .49 −0.00 −1.91 −1.91 0 .00
(2.99) (3 .04) ( −0.17) ( −7.27) ( −7.35) (0 .09)
RN SKEW 0 .58 0 .57 0 .01 −1.57 −1.59 0 .02
(4.63) (4 .55) (0 .88) ( −10.39) ( −10.34) (1 .14)
Panel B: Stock Characteristics
Before TC After TC
Option Option Fill Diff Option Option Fill Diff
AMIHUD −0.02 −0.08 0 .06 −2.19 −2.25 0 .06
(−0.10) ( −0.40) (3 .89) ( −9.20) ( −9.36) (3 .96)
-LN(PRICE) 0 .60 0 .55 0 .05 −1.38 −1.43 0 .05
(2.83) (2 .57) (2 .70) ( −5.76) ( −5.97) (2 .74)
-Size 0 .17 0 .11 0 .06 −1.87 −1.93 0 .06
(0.83) (0 .53) (3 .56) ( −7.74) ( −7.98) (3 .66)
Continued on the next page
55

========== PAGE 57 ==========

Continued from the previous page
Before TC After TC
Option Option Fill Difference Option Option Fill Difference
CFV 0 .01 0 .01 0 .01 −1.51 −1.52 0 .01
(0.05) (0 .03) (0 .32) ( −6.77) ( −6.92) (0 .71)
DISP 0 .01 0 .01 0 .00 −1.52 −1.53 0 .00
(0.09) (0 .06) (0 .78) ( −9.19) ( −9.23) (0 .84)
IVOL 1 .25 1 .18 0 .07 −0.56 −0.63 0 .07
(6.58) (6 .26) (4 .22) ( −3.04) ( −3.43) (4 .25)
ISSUE 1Y 0 .82 0 .79 0 .02 −0.89 −0.92 0 .03
(6.60) (6 .47) (1 .43) ( −7.07) ( −7.02) (1 .59)
ISSUE 5Y 0 .97 0 .97 −0.01 −0.68 −0.68 −0.00
(5.06) (5 .00) ( −0.42) ( −4.45) ( −4.28) ( −0.20)
TEF 0 .58 0 .55 0 .03 −1.15 −1.19 0 .03
(3.92) (3 .69) (2 .69) ( −8.65) ( −8.79) (2 .82)
-BM 0 .49 0 .49 −0.01 −1.11 −1.11 −0.01
(3.24) (3 .26) ( −0.89) ( −6.44) ( −6.40) ( −0.57)
CH 1 .49 1 .49 0 .00 −0.60 −0.60 0 .00
(7.90) (7 .95) (0 .41) ( −4.51) ( −4.56) (0 .53)
-PM 0 .95 0 .94 0 .01 −1.02 −1.03 0 .01
(5.30) (5 .42) (0 .51) ( −7.55) ( −7.68) (0 .52)
-PROFIT 0 .53 0 .52 0 .01 −1.42 −1.43 0 .01
(3.58) (3 .53) (0 .57) ( −9.69) ( −9.63) (0 .62)
-ZS −0.04 −0.06 0 .02 −2.07 −2.09 0 .02
(−0.28) ( −0.42) (0 .81) ( −9.61) ( −9.69) (0 .92)
Stock MOM 0 .67 0 .69 −0.02 −1.42 −1.40 −0.01
(4.31) (4 .46) ( −1.13) ( −9.15) ( −9.01) ( −0.88)
Stock REV 0 .29 0 .26 0 .03 −1.92 −1.95 0 .03
(1.90) (1 .73) (1 .82) ( −9.42) ( −9.50) (1 .91)
56

========== PAGE 58 ==========

Table A2: The impact of sample period on portfolio returns
This table contains equal-weighted delta-hedged option portfolio returns sorted by various
characteristics using different sample periods. Long-short decile portfolios are formed at the
end of each month and held for one month. All returns are gross returns before transaction
costs. ‘96-16’ denotes the sample from January 1996 to April 2016; ‘03-21’ denotes the sample
from September 2003 to December 2021; ‘96-03’ denotes the sample from January 1996 to
August 2003; and ‘16-21’ denotes for the sample from May 2003 to December 2021. We
report t-statistics in parentheses calculated using Newey-West standard errors with six lags
and Sharpe ratios in bracket parentheses. Variables are described in Section A.1.
Panel A: Option Characteristics
96-16 03-21 96-03 16-21
Option MOM 0 .72 0 .93 1 .00 1 .78
(2.48) (4 .51) (1 .34) (4 .42)
[0.58] [1 .05] [0 .55] [1 .64]
Option REV −0.34 0 .06 −0.78 0 .40
(−1.61) (0 .34) ( −1.62) (1 .02)
[−0.38] [0 .08] [ −0.62] [0 .43]
-VOL deviation 2 .83 2 .39 4 .27 3 .35
(10.02) (8 .78) (9 .12) (4 .84)
[3.64] [3 .23] [4 .85] [3 .49]
VOV 0 .95 1 .23 0 .97 1 .86
(5.80) (5 .24) (2 .64) (2 .91)
[1.01] [1 .70] [0 .72] [2 .01]
-VTS 1 .31 1 .09 1 .88 1 .37
(7.61) (4 .61) (5 .72) (2 .00)
[1.56] [1 .55] [1 .62] [1 .40]
Option Price 0 .76 1 .03 0 .52 1 .26
(3.02) (5 .57) (0 .88) (2 .88)
[0.75] [1 .49] [0 .35] [1 .36]
-ILLIQ 0 .62 0 .49 0 .55 0 .05
(3.19) (3 .04) (1 .37) (0 .18)
[0.81] [0 .81] [0 .55] [0 .07]
RN SKEW 0 .55 0 .57 0 .24 0 .59
(6.02) (4 .55) (0 .54) (1 .67)
[1.37] [1 .01] [0 .39] [0 .71]
Panel B: Stock Characteristics
96-16 03-21 96-03 16-21
AMIHUD 0 .13 −0.08 0 .51 0 .01
(0.67) ( −0.40) (1 .43) (0 .03)
[0.18] [ −0.12] [0 .60] [0 .02]
Continued on the next page
57

========== PAGE 59 ==========

Continued from the previous page
96-16 03-21 96-03 16-21
-LN(PRICE) 0 .66 0 .55 1 .00 0 .81
(2.69) (2 .57) (1 .73) (1 .39)
[0.75] [0 .74] [0 .83] [0 .82]
-Size 0 .24 0 .11 0 .53 0 .25
(1.21) (0 .53) (1 .24) (0 .48)
[0.33] [0 .14] [0 .58] [0 .24]
CFV −0.15 0 .01 −0.07 0 .57
(−0.97) (0 .03) ( −0.21) (1 .00)
[−0.24] [0 .01] [ −0.09] [0 .61]
DISP −0.17 0 .01 −0.32 0 .24
(−1.02) (0 .06) ( −0.88) (0 .95)
[−0.25] [0 .02] [ −0.35] [0 .42]
IVOL 0 .77 1 .18 0 .52 1 .66
(3.57) (6 .26) (1 .02) (3 .57)
[0.80] [1 .73] [0 .37] [1 .91]
ISSUE 1Y 0 .24 0 .79 −0.27 1 .27
(1.71) (6 .47) ( −0.95) (4 .97)
[0.35] [1 .44] [ −0.30] [2 .02]
ISSUE 5Y 0 .36 0 .97 −0.07 1 .73
(2.42) (5 .00) ( −0.25) (3 .90)
[0.54] [1 .54] [ −0.08] [2 .15]
TEF 0 .08 0 .55 −0.23 1 .10
(0.51) (3 .69) ( −0.63) (3 .72)
[0.11] [1 .04] [ −0.22] [1 .80]
-BM 0 .30 0 .49 −0.29 0 .05
(1.31) (3 .26) ( −0.58) (0 .13)
[0.32] [0 .74] [ −0.22] [0 .05]
CH 0 .63 1 .49 −0.25 2 .14
(2.42) (7 .95) ( −0.45) (5 .77)
[0.65] [2 .04] [ −0.19] [2 .29]
-PM 0 .24 0 .94 −0.23 1 .83
(1.29) (5 .42) ( −0.54) (5 .61)
[0.29] [1 .34] [ −0.19] [1 .96]
-PROFIT 0 .17 0 .52 −0.00 1 .07
(1.14) (3 .53) ( −0.01) (3 .81)
[0.27] [0 .88] [ −0.01] [1 .73]
-ZS 0 .18 −0.06 0 .62 0 .10
(0.92) ( −0.42) (1 .38) (0 .33)
[0.21] [ −0.09] [0 .48] [0 .12]
Stock MOM 0 .30 0 .69 0 .01 1 .15
(1.26) (4 .46) (0 .02) (5 .06)
[0.33] [0 .97] [0 .01] [1 .48]
Stock REV 0 .12 0 .26 −0.29 −0.00
(0.53) (1 .73) ( −0.59) ( −0.02)
[0.15] [0 .41] [ −0.27] [ −0.01]
58

========== PAGE 60 ==========

Table A3: The impact of portfolio weights on returns
Long-short delta-hedged option portfolio returns after transaction costs under stock value-
weighted, equal-weighted, and option value-weighted weighting schemes. ‘Stock-VW’ refers
to a portfolio that weights each return using its stock market capitalization at the portfolio
formation date, ‘EW’ refers to equal weights, and ‘Option-Value-Weights’ weighs by the
market value of option open interest at the formation date. All returns are net of transaction
costs. The transaction costs include stock trading costs and option trading costs with effective
bid-ask spread equal to dollar-weighted effective stock bid-ask spread from TAQ and 20.3%
times quoted option bid-ask spread, respectively. The superscripts ‘mon’ and ‘mat2’ refer to
the buy-and-hold one-month return formed at the end of each month and the buy-and-hold
to-maturity return formed on the third Friday of each month, respectively. The subscripts
‘all’ and ‘lc’ refer to the full sample of firms and the subsample with firms in an option bid-ask
spread decile below the 5th decile in each cross-section. Portfolios with significant positive
returns at a 5% level or above are indicated in bold. The t-statistics are adjusted using the
Newey-West method with six lags. Variables are described in Section A.1. The time period
is between September 2003 and December 2021.
Panel A: Option Characteristics
E[rmon
lc ] E[rmat2
all ]
Stock-VW EW Option-VW Stock-VW EW Option-VW
Option MOM −0.38 −0.41 −0.41 0 .30 0 .36 0 .33
(−1.91) ( −1.98) ( −0.62) (1 .49) (1 .75) (0 .71)
Option REV −0.80 −1.17 −0.85 −1.02 −1.22 −1.36
(−5.13) ( −7.39) ( −2.27) ( −4.78) ( −6.26) ( −4.24)
-VOL deviation 0 .40 0 .11 1.05 1 .29 1 .51 1 .68
(1.93) (0 .48) (2.34) (5 .79) (8 .00) (4 .78)
VOV 0 .28 0 .26 0 .32 0 .19 0 .41 0 .15
(1.21) (1 .18) (0 .96) (0 .53) (1 .72) (0 .42)
-VTS 0 .23 −0.31 0 .39 0 .45 −0.41 0 .05
(0.92) ( −1.37) (0 .83) (1 .74) ( −2.45) (0 .14)
Option Price −0.08 −0.52 −0.72 −0.89 −1.39 −1.14
(−0.59) ( −3.13) ( −1.97) ( −4.30) ( −6.18) ( −3.60)
-ILLIQ −0.29 −0.59 −0.44 −1.81 −2.70 −2.52
(−2.77) ( −5.58) ( −1.96) ( −10.66) ( −11.04) ( −6.78)
RN SKEW −0.14 −0.38 0 .06 −0.30 −0.39 0 .29
(−0.86) ( −2.21) (0 .19) ( −2.00) ( −2.98) (0 .96)
Panel B: Stock Characteristics
E[rmon
lc ] E[rmat2
all ]
Stock-VW EW Option-VW Stock-VW EW Option-VW
AMIHUD −0.73 −0.67 −0.75 0 .01 0 .07 0 .35
(−3.78) ( −3.59) ( −1.44) (0 .03) (0 .29) (0 .80)
-LN(PRICE) −0.41 −0.52 −0.57 −0.02 0 .17 0 .47
(−2.20) ( −2.76) ( −1.60) ( −0.07) (0 .63) (1 .49)
-Size −0.66 −0.63 −1.09 −0.15 −0.08 −0.03
(−3.37) ( −3.40) ( −2.18) ( −0.68) ( −0.37) ( −0.08)
CFV −0.53 −0.69 −0.65 −0.30 −0.67 −0.18
(−2.61) ( −3.02) ( −1.79) ( −1.52) ( −2.86) ( −0.58)
Continued on the next page
59

========== PAGE 61 ==========

Continued from the previous page
E[rmon
lc ] E[rmat2
all ]
Stock-VW EW Option-VW Stock-VW EW Option-VW
DISP −0.52 −0.58 −0.18 −0.53 −0.78 −0.09
(−2.52) ( −3.58) ( −0.63) ( −2.06) ( −4.18) ( −0.34)
IVOL 0.43 0.24 −0.04 −0.01 −0.00 0 .38
(2.38) (1.40) ( −0.10) ( −0.04) ( −0.01) (1 .30)
ISSUE 1Y −0.21 −0.27 −0.09 −0.26 −0.12 −0.26
(−1.49) ( −1.82) ( −0.25) ( −1.83) ( −0.72) ( −0.96)
ISSUE 5Y −0.22 −0.17 0 .15 −0.36 −0.20 −0.16
(−1.40) ( −0.91) (0 .37) ( −2.34) ( −1.34) ( −0.64)
TEF −0.28 −0.33 −0.10 −0.41 −0.42 −0.06
(−2.13) ( −2.26) ( −0.23) ( −1.74) ( −2.03) ( −0.26)
-BM −0.13 −0.46 −0.51 −0.27 −0.64 −0.14
(−0.73) ( −2.89) ( −1.69) ( −1.40) ( −3.77) ( −0.49)
CH −0.42 −0.12 −0.45 −0.06 0.44 0 .82
(−3.06) ( −0.71) ( −1.12) ( −0.27) (2.49) (2 .69)
-PM −0.25 −0.53 −0.59 −0.01 −0.16 0 .50
(−1.66) ( −3.64) ( −1.33) ( −0.06) ( −0.74) (1 .93)
-PROFIT −0.23 −0.36 −0.41 −0.03 −0.37 0 .16
(−1.81) ( −2.84) ( −1.19) ( −0.16) ( −1.80) (0 .60)
-ZS −0.28 −0.70 −0.70 −0.34 −1.17 −0.46
(−1.99) ( −3.90) ( −1.25) ( −2.04) ( −7.57) ( −1.59)
Stock MOM −0.02 −0.39 −0.83 −0.70 −1.07 −1.17
(−0.11) ( −2.42) ( −2.14) ( −2.84) ( −4.58) ( −3.28)
Stock REV −0.33 −0.83 −1.34 −0.36 −1.14 −0.76
(−1.71) ( −4.71) ( −2.99) ( −1.60) ( −6.03) ( −2.30)
60

========== PAGE 62 ==========

Table A4: Risk-adjustment of portfolio returns
This table contains equal-weighted delta-hedged option portfolio returns sorted on various
characteristics with risk adjustment. Portfolios are formed at the end of each month and
held for one month. Subscripts refer to portfolio deciles. Superscripts ‘net’ and ’gross’ refer
to returns before and net-of transaction costs, respectively. Column ‘ αF F5’ contains the al-
pha relative to the Fama and French five-factor model. Column ‘ αSP 500’ contains the alphas
relative to the delta-hedged SP500 option return. We report t-statistics in parentheses calcu-
lated using Newey-West standard errors with six lags. Variables are described in Section A.1.
The time period is between September 2003 and December 2021. The sample period is from
September 2003 to December 2021.
Panel A: Option Characteristics
E[rgross
1 ] E[rgross
10 ] E[rgross
10−1 ] αF F5 αSP 500
Option MOM −0.02 0 .91 0.93 0 .93 0 .99
(−0.09) (4 .41) (4.51) (4 .70) (4 .28)
Option REV 0 .77 0 .83 0 .06 0 .06 0 .11
(3.18) (3 .77) (0 .34) (0 .37) (0 .52)
-VOL deviation −0.28 2 .11 2.39 2 .34 2 .41
(−1.51) (7 .56) (8.78) (10 .10) (9 .26)
VOV 0 .13 1 .36 1.23 1 .10 1 .08
(1.07) (4 .70) (5.24) (5 .41) (4 .55)
-VTS 0 .41 1 .50 1.09 1 .02 1 .05
(2.27) (5 .74) (4.61) (5 .11) (4 .36)
Option Price −0.41 0 .62 1.03 1 .17 1 .21
(−1.60) (4 .41) (5.57) (7 .78) (5 .60)
-ILLIQ 0 .06 0 .55 0.49 0 .64 0 .48
(0.27) (3 .32) (3.04) (5 .31) (3 .10)
RN SKEW 0 .11 0 .68 0.57 0 .57 0 .44
(0.82) (3 .02) (4.55) (4 .29) (3 .51)
Panel B: Stock Characteristics
E[rgross
1 ] E[rgross
10 ] E[rgross
10−1 ] αF F5 αSP 500
AMIHUD 0 .49 0 .41 −0.08 −0.15 −0.18
(3.83) (1 .63) ( −0.40) ( −0.97) ( −0.93)
-LN(PRICE) 0 .37 0 .92 0.55 0 .44 0.42
(2.80) (3 .23) (2.57) (2 .71) (1.84)
-Size 0 .54 0 .64 0 .11 0 .03 0 .04
(4.21) (2 .50) (0 .53) (0 .21) (0 .17)
CFV 0 .46 0 .47 0 .01 −0.18 −0.22
(3.93) (1 .79) (0 .03) ( −1.05) ( −0.90)
Continued on the next page
61

========== PAGE 63 ==========

Continued from the previous page
E[rgross
1 ] E[rgross
10 ] E[rgross
10−1 ] αF F5 αSP 500
DISP 0 .39 0 .40 0 .01 −0.04 −0.07
(2.81) (1 .88) (0 .06) ( −0.32) ( −0.52)
IVOL 0 .18 1 .36 1.18 1 .16 1 .06
(1.33) (5 .66) (6.26) (6 .47) (5 .68)
ISSUE 1Y 0 .17 0 .97 0.79 0 .76 0 .80
(1.01) (4 .56) (6.47) (5 .94) (5 .88)
ISSUE 5Y 0 .05 1 .02 0.97 0 .88 0 .97
(0.26) (3 .91) (5.00) (5 .13) (4 .49)
TEF 0 .36 0 .91 0.55 0 .49 0 .49
(2.56) (4 .74) (3.69) (3 .24) (2 .88)
-BM 0 .17 0 .66 0.49 0 .68 0 .67
(0.66) (4 .19) (3.26) (5 .48) (3 .90)
CH 0 .06 1 .55 1.49 1 .49 1 .64
(0.30) (7 .22) (7.95) (7 .66) (7 .40)
-PM 0 .34 1 .28 0.94 0 .96 0 .99
(1.84) (5 .77) (5.42) (4 .58) (4 .38)
-PROFIT 0 .53 1 .05 0.52 0 .38 0 .44
(3.38) (4 .44) (3.53) (2 .89) (2 .63)
-ZS 0 .82 0 .76 −0.06 −0.14 −0.16
(4.98) (3 .22) ( −0.42) ( −1.11) ( −1.14)
Stock MOM 0 .07 0 .76 0.69 0 .66 0 .76
(0.30) (3 .53) (4.46) (4 .21) (4 .31)
Stock REV 0 .46 0 .72 0 .26 0.35 0.35
(1.95) (3 .81) (1 .73) (2.28) (1.84)
62

========== PAGE 64 ==========

Table A5: Equal-weighted buy & hold option portfolio returns - put options
This table contains buy & hold delta-hedged put option portfolio returns and transaction
costs for long-short portfolios sorted on various characteristics. Portfolios are formed at the
end of each month and held for one month. Subscripts refer to portfolio deciles. Superscripts
‘net’ and ’gross’ refer to returns before and net-of transaction costs, respectively. TC stands
for portfolio transaction costs and is defined as the difference between gross and net returns.
The transaction costs include stock transaction costs with an effective bid-ask spread from the
TAQ database and option transaction costs with an effective bid-ask spread equal to 20.3%
times the quoted bid-ask spread from the OptionMetrics database. We report t-statistics
in parentheses calculated using Newey-West standard errors with six lags. Variables are
described in Section A.1. The sample period is from September 2003 to December 2021.
Panel A: Option Characteristics
E[rgross
1 ] E[rgross
10 ] E[rgross
10−1 ] TC E[rnet
10−1]
-Option MOM −0.09 −0.55 −0.45 1 .11 −1.57
(−0.53) ( −3.20) ( −3.19) ( −9.02)
-Option REV −0.54 −0.75 −0.21 1 .67 −1.88
(−2.71) ( −4.58) ( −1.58) ( −8.97)
VOL deviation −1.46 0 .23 1.70 1.92 −0.22
(−6.89) (1 .68) (9.30) (−1.55)
-VOV −1.01 −0.04 0.97 1.80 −0.82
(−5.29) ( −0.34) (7.12) (−5.58)
VTS −1.16 −0.20 0.96 2.09 −1.13
(−6.11) ( −1.34) (5.89) (−6.03)
-Option Price −0.37 0 .39 0.75 1.67 −0.92
(−2.91) (1 .63) (4.19) (−6.04)
ILLIQ −0.31 0 .10 0.41 2.15 −1.74
(−2.16) (0 .60) (4.21) (−9.46)
RN SKEW −0.18 0 .06 0.24 1.84 −1.60
(−1.28) (0 .34) (2.21) (−10.95)
Panel B: Stock Characteristics
E[rgross
1 ] E[rgross
10 ] E[rgross
10−1 ] TC E[rnet
10−1]
-AMIHUD −0.36 −0.31 0 .05 1 .80 −1.74
(−2.05) ( −2.69) (0 .41) ( −10.65)
LN(PRICE) −0.61 −0.20 0.41 1.67 −1.26
(−2.96) ( −1.52) (2.82) (−7.30)
Size −0.52 −0.34 0 .18 1 .68 −1.50
(−2.82) ( −2.93) (1 .35) ( −8.96)
-CFV −0.30 −0.24 0 .05 1 .30 −1.25
(−1.42) ( −2.15) (0 .33) ( −7.40)
Continued on the next page
63

========== PAGE 65 ==========

Continued from the previous page
Before TC After TC
E[rgross
1 ] E[rgross
10 ] E[rgross
10−1 ] TC E[rnet
10−1]
-DISP −0.34 −0.22 0 .12 1 .31 −1.19
(−2.12) ( −1.85) (1 .30) ( −9.74)
-IVOL −1.14 −0.08 1.06 1.52 −0.46
(−6.72) ( −0.69) (8.64) (−3.34)
-ISSUE 1Y −0.70 −0.10 0.60 1.44 −0.84
(−4.34) ( −0.69) (7.20) (−7.22)
-ISSUE 5Y −0.69 −0.06 0.63 1.40 −0.78
(−3.47) ( −0.40) (4.68) (−6.28)
-TEF −0.62 −0.23 0.39 1.46 −1.07
(−4.14) ( −1.97) (3.58) (−8.98)
BM −0.45 −0.11 0.35 1.36 −1.01
(−3.33) ( −0.56) (2.87) (−7.37)
-CH −1.05 −0.02 1.03 1.75 −0.72
(−6.62) ( −0.10) (8.25) (−5.98)
PM −0.87 −0.31 0.56 1.67 −1.11
(−5.68) ( −2.12) (5.26) (−8.47)
PROFIT −0.73 −0.42 0.31 1.64 −1.32
(−4.29) ( −3.00) (3.01) (−9.16)
-ZS −0.63 −0.50 0 .13 1 .71 −1.59
(−4.56) ( −2.81) (1 .38) ( −9.42)
-Stock MOM −0.49 −0.05 0.44 1.74 −1.30
(−2.72) ( −0.26) (3.52) (−9.31)
-Stock REV −0.53 −0.32 0 .21 1 .82 −1.61
(−3.17) ( −1.79) (1 .63) ( −8.83)
64

========== PAGE 66 ==========

Table A6: The impact of hedging frequency - all variables
This table contains a performance evaluation of equal-weighted long-short decile portfolios
with four kinds of hedging frequency. ‘Once’ represents the buy-and-hold to maturity strat-
egy, hedged at the portfolio formation date. ‘Biweekly’ represents the strategy which is
re-hedged every two weeks, a ‘Weekly’ strategy is re-hedged every week, and the ‘Daily’
strategy is re-hedged every trading day. The number without parentheses shows the average
return after transaction costs and t-statistics, annual Sharpe ratios, and turnover of stocks
for the return after transaction costs time series are shown in the parentheses, bracket paren-
theses, and curly braces, respectively. All statistics for portfolios with significant positive
returns at a 5% level or above are indicated in bold. t-statistics are calculated using Newey-
West standard errors with six lags. For brevity, we only show returns on a subset of our full
set of characteristics. Variables are described in Section A.1. The time period is between
September 2003 and December 2021.
Panel A: Option Characteristics
Before Transaction Costs After Transaction Costs
Once Half-Monthly Weekly Daily Once Half-Monthly Weekly Daily
Option MOM 0.81 0 .93 0 .98 0 .77 0.21 0 .32 0.33 −0.03
(3.32) (5 .06) (5 .51) (5 .23) (0.93) (1 .94) (2.09) (−0.23)
[0.91] [1 .55] [1 .80] [1 .72] [0.24] [0 .55] [0.63] [−0.07]
{2.03} { 2.41} { 2.76} { 4.44} {2.03} { 2.41} {2.76} {4.44}
Option REV −0.14 0.24 0 .40 0 .63 −0.97 −0.60 −0.49 −0.46
(−1.07) (2.05) (3 .42) (6 .37) (−7.99) ( −5.96) ( −5.08) ( −5.62)
[−0.22] [0.56] [0 .99] [1 .95] [−1.52] [ −1.42] [ −1.31] [ −1.47]
{2.00} {2.39} { 2.75} { 4.47} {2.00} { 2.39} { 2.75} { 4.47}
-VOL deviation 2.06 1 .93 1 .90 1 .97 1 .16 1 .02 0 .94 0 .83
(7.93) (9 .06) (9 .99) (9 .09) (5 .38) (6 .01) (6 .51) (5 .06)
[2.98] [3 .83] [4 .15] [4 .27] [1 .80] [2 .26] [2 .34] [2 .13]
{1.98} { 2.36} { 2.71} { 4.41} { 1.98} { 2.36} { 2.71} { 4.41}
VOV 1.33 1 .36 1 .27 1 .48 0 .52 0 .54 0 .40 0 .44
(6.09) (7 .45) (6 .37) (7 .36) (2 .78) (3 .58) (2 .34) (2 .64)
[2.01] [2 .94] [2 .80] [3 .36] [0 .82] [1 .28] [0 .97] [1 .12]
{1.98} { 2.36} { 2.73} { 4.48} { 1.98} { 2.36} { 2.73} { 4.48}
-VTS 1.08 0 .92 0 .84 0 .86 0.10 −0.07 −0.19 −0.39
(4.85) (6 .14) (5 .98) (6 .28) (0.53) ( −0.49) ( −1.49) ( −3.46)
[1.71] [2 .01] [1 .95] [2 .21] [0.17] [ −0.15] [ −0.47] [ −1.09]
{2.00} { 2.37} { 2.72} { 4.41} {2.00} { 2.37} { 2.72} { 4.41}
Option Price 0 .05 −0.02 −0.06 −0.16 −0.67 −0.76 −0.84 −1.15
(0.37) ( −0.18) ( −0.39) ( −1.36) ( −5.22) ( −5.80) ( −6.06) ( −10.18)
[0.09] [ −0.06] [ −0.14] [ −0.44] [ −1.22] [ −1.74] [ −2.09] [ −3.18]
{1.82} { 2.19} { 2.55} { 4.23} { 1.82} { 2.19} { 2.55} { 4.23}
-ILLIQ −0.69 −0.68 −0.66 −0.69 −1.66 −1.66 −1.68 −1.91
(−4.92) ( −5.38) ( −5.39) ( −5.50) ( −8.84) ( −9.61) ( −9.85) ( −10.78)
[−1.40] [ −1.76] [ −1.81] [ −1.98] [ −3.08] [ −3.78] [ −3.99] [ −4.64]
{1.85} { 2.24} { 2.60} { 4.33} { 1.85} { 2.24} { 2.60} { 4.33}
RN SKEW 0.50 0 .62 0 .65 0 .79 −0.30 −0.19 −0.20 −0.25
(5.53) (5 .63) (6 .76) (7 .56) (−3.64) ( −2.11) ( −2.46) ( −3.08)
[1.04] [1 .78] [2 .23] [2 .90] [−0.63] [ −0.58] [ −0.71] [ −1.00]
{1.95} { 2.34} { 2.71} { 4.50} {1.95} { 2.34} { 2.71} { 4.50}
Continued on the next page
65

========== PAGE 67 ==========

Continued from the previous page
Panel B: Stock Characteristics
Before Transaction Costs After Transaction Costs
Once Half-Monthly Weekly Daily Once Half-Monthly Weekly Daily
AMIHUD 0.69 0 .66 0 .71 0 .92 −0.20 −0.25 −0.25 −0.27
(5.00) (4 .42) (4 .72) (6 .33) (−1.57) ( −1.78) ( −1.79) ( −2.21)
[1.32] [1 .53] [1 .74] [2 .47] [−0.39] [ −0.60] [ −0.64] [ −0.79]
{1.97} { 2.36} { 2.72} { 4.49} {1.97} { 2.36} { 2.72} { 4.49}
-LN(PRICE) 0.72 0 .85 0 .89 1 .16 −0.10 0 .01 0 .01 0 .07
(4.10) (4 .79) (4 .66) (7 .16) (−0.54) (0 .06) (0 .03) (0 .45)
[1.05] [1 .77] [2 .02] [2 .99] [−0.14] [0 .02] [0 .01] [0 .18]
{1.98} { 2.36} { 2.72} { 4.45} {1.98} { 2.36} { 2.72} { 4.45}
-Size 0.55 0 .63 0 .69 0 .98 −0.30 −0.23 −0.23 −0.16
(3.72) (4 .06) (4 .23) (6 .17) (−1.97) ( −1.59) ( −1.48) ( −1.16)
[0.90] [1 .40] [1 .61] [2 .43] [−0.49] [ −0.53] [ −0.55] [ −0.42]
{1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.50} {1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.50}
CFV −0.08 0 .24 0 .27 0.56 −0.71 −0.40 −0.41 −0.28
(−0.47) (1 .42) (1 .65) (4.08) (−4.21) ( −2.52) ( −2.57) ( −2.37)
[−0.12] [0 .51] [0 .65] [1.71] [−1.02] [ −0.89] [ −0.98] [ −0.93]
{1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} {4.49} {1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.49}
DISP −0.09 0 .07 0 .07 0.30 −0.71 −0.56 −0.59 −0.53
(−0.61) (0 .69) (0 .64) (3.30) (−4.62) ( −5.14) ( −4.94) ( −5.64)
[−0.16] [0 .22] [0 .23] [1.12] [−1.30] [ −1.67] [ −1.87] [ −1.99]
{1.97} { 2.36} { 2.73} {4.51} {1.97} { 2.36} { 2.73} { 4.51}
IVOL 0.87 0 .85 0 .75 0 .97 0.17 0 .13 −0.01 0 .04
(5.06) (5 .20) (4 .41) (6 .00) (1.02) (0 .88) ( −0.07) (0 .29)
[1.27] [1 .84] [1 .80] [2 .55] [0.25] [0 .30] [ −0.03] [0 .11]
{1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.50} {1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.50}
ISSUE 1Y 0.67 0 .69 0 .69 0 .88 −0.03 −0.02 −0.07 −0.05
(4.39) (4 .97) (5 .52) (6 .79) (−0.22) ( −0.19) ( −0.66) ( −0.51)
[1.20] [1 .78] [2 .04] [2 .92] [−0.06] [ −0.06] [ −0.21] [ −0.19]
{1.98} { 2.36} { 2.73} { 4.46} {1.98} { 2.36} { 2.73} { 4.46}
ISSUE 5Y 0.78 0 .72 0 .68 0 .85 0.11 0 .05 −0.04 −0.03
(4.78) (4 .56) (4 .84) (6 .18) (0.76) (0 .34) ( −0.31) ( −0.28)
[1.22] [1 .67] [1 .82] [2 .60] [0.18] [0 .11] [ −0.10] [ −0.10]
{1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.48} {1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.48}
TEF 0.51 0 .48 0 .47 0 .66 −0.21 −0.26 −0.31 −0.30
(2.77) (2 .96) (3 .35) (5 .05) (−1.30) ( −1.84) ( −2.64) ( −2.86)
[0.93] [1 .15] [1 .30] [2 .10] [−0.40] [ −0.66] [ −0.92] [ −1.03]
{1.98} { 2.37} { 2.73} { 4.46} {1.98} { 2.37} { 2.73} { 4.46}
-BM 0.41 0 .26 0 .32 0 .27 −0.27 −0.42 −0.40 −0.63
(2.45) (2 .03) (2 .39) (2 .72) (−1.61) ( −3.33) ( −3.17) ( −6.50)
[0.58] [0 .62] [0 .82] [0 .93] [−0.38] [ −0.99] [ −1.04] [ −2.12]
{1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.48} {1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.48}
CH 1.50 1 .27 1 .30 1 .34 0 .64 0 .39 0 .38 0 .23
(6.93) (7 .20) (7 .96) (8 .72) (3 .59) (2 .95) (3 .19) (2 .29)
[1.93] [2 .66] [3 .07] [3 .61] [0 .85] [0 .91] [1 .00] [0 .72]
{1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.47} { 1.98} { 2.37} { 2.74} { 4.47}
-PM 0.91 1 .00 1 .08 1 .23 0.08 0 .16 0 .19 0 .15
(5.19) (5 .68) (6 .51) (7 .60) (0.56) (1 .18) (1 .56) (1 .30)
[1.21] [2 .12] [2 .59] [3 .21] [0.11] [0 .38] [0 .52] [0 .46]
{1.99} { 2.38} { 2.75} { 4.49} {1.99} { 2.38} { 2.75} { 4.49}
Continued on the next page
66

========== PAGE 68 ==========

Continued from the previous page
Before Transaction Costs After Transaction Costs
Once Biweekly Weekly Daily Once Biweekly Weekly Daily
-PROFIT 0.68 0 .67 0 .71 0 .82 −0.14 −0.16 −0.18 −0.25
(4.26) (4 .35) (5 .23) (6 .78) (−0.98) ( −1.21) ( −1.55) ( −2.71)
[1.32] [1 .66] [1 .98] [2 .72] [−0.28] [ −0.43] [ −0.53] [ −0.94]
{2.00} { 2.38} { 2.73} { 4.44} {2.00} { 2.38} { 2.73} { 4.44}
-ZS −0.15 0 .12 0 .20 0.30 −1.02 −0.76 −0.73 −0.82
(−1.17) (1 .06) (1 .94) (3.52) (−7.24) ( −6.59) ( −6.76) ( −9.90)
[−0.29] [0 .30] [0 .61] [1.15] [−1.89] [ −1.96] [ −2.20] [ −3.24]
{2.00} { 2.38} { 2.74} {4.44} {2.00} { 2.38} { 2.74} { 4.44}
Stock MOM 0.47 0 .38 0 .37 0 .25 −0.40 −0.50 −0.56 −0.90
(2.29) (3 .00) (2 .70) (2 .42) (−2.03) ( −4.28) ( −4.39) ( −9.35)
[0.60] [0 .82] [0 .86] [0 .73] [−0.52] [ −1.10] [ −1.29] [ −2.59]
{2.00} { 2.39} { 2.75} { 4.44} {2.00} { 2.39} { 2.75} { 4.44}
Stock REV 0 .02 0 .16 0 .15 0 .13 −0.83 −0.71 −0.77 −1.00
(0.11) (1 .39) (1 .19) (1 .35) ( −4.24) ( −6.13) ( −5.94) ( −10.14)
[0.03] [0 .39] [0 .39] [0 .42] [ −1.16] [ −1.73] [ −1.96] [ −3.22]
{1.99} { 2.39} { 2.75} { 4.47} { 1.99} { 2.39} { 2.75} { 4.47}
67

========== PAGE 69 ==========

B Accounting for transaction costs
In the following sections, we detail how we adjust returns for transaction costs.
B.1 Stock transaction costs
To construct a delta-hedged option return on a written option, delta shares of the stock must
be bought at initiation. Because we form portfolios that are rebalanced monthly, an option
written on the same stock can enter the same portfolio in consecutive months. Therefore, we
account for the possibility of already having an existing stock position when we rebalance.
For decile portfolio k with a written option on stock i at the end of month t, one needs
to buy bk
i,t shares of stock i, which is determined by
bk
i,t = max{∆k
i,t − ∆k
i,t−1, 0},
where ∆ k
i,t denotes the delta on stock i added to portfolio k at time t. ∆ k
i,t−1 captures any
pre-existing stock position. If an option on stock i is not included in portfolio k at the end
of month t − 1, ∆ k
i,t−1 equals zero. Specifically, at the first portfolio formation date t = 1,
one has to buy the ∆ k
i,1 shares of the stock i for the portfolio k, hence ∆ k
i,0 = 0.
Rebalancing after the one-month holding period may require selling shares used to hedge
to an option position. After holding the stock i in the portfolio k formed at the end of the
month t for one month, one needs to sell sk
i,t shares of stock;
sk
i,t = max{∆k
i,t − ∆k
i,t+1, 0}
where ∆k
i,t denotes the delta shares of stocks needed for the portfolio k at time t. As before,
if the stock i is not included in the portfolio k at the end of the month t + 1, ∆k
i,t+1 equals
zero. In particular, at the end of the sample period t = T , one has to sell the ∆ k
i,T shares of
the stock i for the portfolio k, hence ∆ k
i,T +1 = 0.
Thus, the overall transaction costs for trading shares on stock i for the portfolio k formed
at the end of the month t contains two parts, the buying cost and selling cost, which can be
written as:
StockBuyT C k
i,t = bk
i,t × Si,t × 0.5 × StockSpread i,t,
and
StockSaleT C k
i,t = sk
i,t × Si,t+1 × 0.5 × StockSpread i,t+1.
68

========== PAGE 70 ==========

where StockSpread i,t denotes the effective bid-ask spread of the stock i at time t. We assume
that half of the effective bid-ask spread is paid in the trading of stocks.
B.2 Option transaction costs
We also need to consider the transaction costs of buying and selling options. We denote this
cost as OptionSpread i,t and note that effective bid-ask spreads of buying and selling options
are approximated by a proportion of quoted option bid-ask spreads, i.e., OptionSpread i,t =
0.203 × QuotedSpread i,t. For the specific portfolio k, if the call option i is assigned to the
portfolio k at the end of month t, one needs to sell a contract, and the associated transaction
cost can be written:
OptionSaleT C k
i,t = 0.5 × OptionSpread i,t × Ci,t
After holding for one month, the option i moves out of the portfolio k, and we buy back
the written option at a cost of:
OptionBuyT C k
i,t = 0.5 × OptionSpread i,t+1 × Ci,t+1.
We assume that the effective option spread is 20.3% of the quoted spread as in Heston
et al. (2023) and that traders pay the effective half-spread to enter or exit a position.
B.3 Option return adjusted for transaction costs
Putting the costs together, for an option i in portfolio k formed at the end of month t, and
held until t + 1, the total transaction costs equal:
T Ck,long
i,t,t+1 = StockBuyT C k
i,t + StockSaleT C k
i,t+1
+ OptionSaleT C k
i,t + OptionBuyT C k
i,t+1
and the portfolio formation cost with transaction costs equal to
F ormCostk
i,t = (∆k
t Si,t − Ci,t) + StockBuyT C k
i,t + OptionSaleT C k
i,t.
Therefore, the buy-and-hold one-month return of a written call position in stock i in
portfolio k formed at the end of month t after accounting stock and option transaction costs
69

========== PAGE 71 ==========

(‘net’) can be written:
rk,long−T C−Ad justed
i,t = (∆k
t Si,t+1 − Ci,t) − T Ck,long
i,t
F ormCostk
i,t
− 1. (2)
We note that the transaction costs have a similar form when we take a short position in
a portfolio consisting of written and delta-hedged options. This trade involves buying a call
and selling delta shares on the formation date, and then one month later selling the option
and buying back delta shares to cover the short stock position.
and can be written:
T Ck,short
i,t,t+1 = ShortSaleT C i,t + StockBuyT C k
i,t + StockSaleT C k
i,t (3)
+ OptionSaleT C k
i,t + OptionBuyT C k
i,t (4)
T Ck,short
i,t,t+1 = StockSaleT C k
i,tStockBuyT C k
i,t+1+ (5)
OptionBuyT C k
i,t + OptionSaleT C k
i,t+1 (6)
and the portfolio formation cost with transaction costs equals to
F ormCostk
i,t = (∆k
t Si,t − Ci,t) + StockSellT C k
i,t + OptionBuyT C k
i,t (7)
Accordingly, the corresponding transaction costs adjusted for the short position equals to
HP Rk,short−T C−Ad justed
i,t = −(∆k
t Si,t+1 − Ci,t) + T Ck,short
i,t
F ormCostk
i,t
. (8)
B.4 Transaction costs for hold-to-maturity returns
We use two types of hold-to-maturity returns in the paper. For one strategy, we form port-
folios at the end of the month; for the second, we form portfolios on the third Friday of each
month. The option positions are then delta-hedged once at formation and held to maturity.
Because options on the same stock can enter a portfolio on consecutive formation dates,
we need to do some accounting for the position in delta shares. The accounting is slightly
different for portfolios formed on the third Friday of each month and portfolios formed at
the end of each month, and we detail the accounting here.
70

========== PAGE 72 ==========

B.4.1 Formation on the third Friday
We detail the costs for a position which consists of a short position in the option and a long
position in delta shares to hedge that position.
∆t denotes the amount of stock needed to hedge the option position at time t, St denotes
the market price of the stock at time t and Ot denotes the market price of the option with
the stock as the underlying asset, Kt denotes the strike price of the option at time t, SSt
(OSt) denotes the effective bid-ask spread of the stock (option) at time t. At time t, suppose
we have an existing short option position expiring, and an option on the same stock enters
the portfolio. There will be ηt shares of stock held already. We need to buy ∆ t − ηt shares
of the stock and sell one option contract, so the transaction costs of this entry is
(∆t − ηt) × St × 0.5 × SSt + Ot × 0.5 × OSt. (9)
At time t + 1, the position formed at time t matures, and if it is in the money, we buy extra
1 −∆t to clear the short option position, and we are left with no stock position, i.e., ηt+1 = 0;
if it is out the money, it will not be exercised, and we sell max {∆t − ∆t+1, 0} shares of stock
to exit the position and the remaining stock position, ηt+1 is min{∆t+1, ∆t}. Therefore, the
transaction costs of the exit of the portfolio formed at time t is



(1 − ∆t) × St+1 × 0.5 × SSt+1 If St+1 > K t,
max{∆t − ∆t+1, 0} × St+1 × 0.5 × SSt+1 If St+1 <= Kt.
(10)
B.4.2 Formation at month-end
The key difference between portfolios of option positions formed at month-end and held for
one month and with option positions held to maturity is the possibility of option positions
overlapping. For example, because the maturity of the position is approximately 50 days, at
the end of the next month, we can have two options on the same stock assigned to a portfolio.
We typically have twice the number of options assigned to the portfolio between the month’s
end and maturity (i.e., approximately days 30-50).
In this case, we do not attempt to avoid transaction costs by netting off positions in the
delta-hedge portfolio. That is, we track each option until maturity and pay any transaction
costs associated with the initial delta-hedge and option exercise.
71

========== PAGE 73 ==========

B.5 Margin costs
We measure the margin requirement following the CBOE initial margin requirement for a
naked short position, which is “100% of option proceeds plus 20% of underlying security /
index value less out-of-the-money amount, if any, to a minimum for calls of option proceeds
plus 10% of the underlying security / index value, and a minimum for puts of option proceeds
plus 10% of the put’s exercise price.” 16 Hence, the margin requirement for the short position
of a call option i at time t is determined by
Mi,t = max{Ci,t + 20% × Si,t − max{Ki − Si,t, 0}, Ci,t + 10% × Si,t} (11)
where Ki stands for the strike price of the option i. Following Zhan et al. (2022), we measure
the margin cost as the cost of borrowing additional capital to meet the margin requirement
over the holding period, i.e., M T Ci,t = rt × τi,t × Mi,t where rt denotes the option-maturity
matched annual LIBOR rate and τi,t denotes the holding time of the option i in year units.
16Website: https://cdn.cboe.com/resources/membership/Margin Manual.pdf
72